(a) The Managing Director is appointed by the Chairman with the approval of the Commission. Under the supervision and direction of the Chairman, the Managing Director shall serve as the Commission's chief operating and executive official with the following duties and responsibilities:

(1) Provide managerial leadership to and exercise supervision and direction over the Commission's Bureaus and Offices with respect to management and administrative matters but not substantive regulatory matters such as regulatory policy and rule making, authorization of service, administration of sanctions, and adjudication.

(2) Formulate and administer all management and administrative policies, programs, and directives for the Commission consistent with authority delegated by the Commission and the Chairman and recommend to the Chairman and the Commission major changes in such policies and programs.

(3) Assist the Chairman in carrying out the administrative and executive responsibilities delegated to the Chairman as the administrative head of the agency.

(4) Advise the Chairman and Commission on management, administrative, and related matters; review and evaluate the programs and procedures of the Commission; initiate action or make recommendations as may be necessary to administer the Communications Act most effectively in the public interest. Assess the management, administrative, and resource implications of any proposed action or decision to be taken by the Commission or by a Bureau or Office under delegated authority; recommend to the Chairman and Commission program priorities, resource and position allocations, management, and administrative policies.

(5) Plan and administer the Commissions performance review system. Assure that objections, priorities, and action plans established by Bureau and Offices are consistent with overall Commission objectives and priorities.

(6) Plan and administer the Commission's Program Evaluation System. Ensure that evaluation results are utilized in Commission decision-making and priority-setting activities.

(7) Direct agency efforts to improve management effectiveness, operational efficiency, employee productivity, and service to the public. Administer Commission-wide management programs.

(8) Plan and manage the administrative affairs of the Commission with respect to the functions of personnel and position management; labor-management relations; training; budget and financial management; accounting for the financial transactions of the Commission and preparation of financial statements and reports; information management and processing; organization planning; management analysis; procurement; office space management and utilization; administrative and office services; supply and property management; records management; personnel and physical security; and international telecommunications settlements.

(9) [Reserved]

(10) With the concurrence of the General Counsel, interpret rules and regulations pertaining to fees.

(b) The Secretary is the official custodian of the Commission's documents.

