(a) Serve as the primary Commission entity responsible for enforcement of the Communications Act and other communications statutes, the Commission's rules, Commission orders and Commission authorizations, other than matters that are addressed in the context of a pending application for a license or other authorization or in the context of administration, including post-grant administration, of a licensing or other authorization or registration program.

(1) Resolve complaints, including complaints filed under section 208 of the Communications Act, regarding acts or omissions of common carriers (wireline, wireless and international).
                

(2) Resolve complaints regarding acts or omissions of non-common carriers subject to the Commission's jurisdiction under Title II of the Communications Act and related provisions, including complaints against aggregators under section 226 of the Communications Act and against entities subject to the requirements of section 227 of the Communications Act.
                

(3) Resolve formal complaints regarding accessibility to communications services and equipment for persons with disabilities, including complaints filed pursuant to sections 225 and 255 of the Communications Act.

(4) Resolve complaints regarding radiofrequency interference and complaints regarding radiofrequency equipment and devices, including complaints of violations of sections 302 and 333 of the Communications Act.
                

(5) Resolve complaints regarding compliance with the Commission's Emergency Alert System rules.

(6) Resolve complaints regarding the lighting and marking of radio transmitting towers under section 303(q) of the Communications Act.
                

(7) Resolve complaints regarding compliance with statutory and regulatory provisions regarding indecent communications subject to the Commission's jurisdiction.

(8) Resolve complaints regarding the broadcast and cable television children's television programming commercial limits contained in section 102 of the Children's Television Act.
                

(9) Resolve complaints regarding unauthorized construction and operation of communications facilities, including complaints of violations of section 301 of the Communications Act.

(10) Resolve complaints regarding false distress signals under section 325(a) of the Communications Act.

(11) Resolves other complaints against Title III licensees and permittees, including complaints under ยง 20.12(e) of this chapter.
                

(12) Resolve complaints regarding pole attachments filed under section 224 of the Communications Act.

(13) Resolve complaints regarding multichannel video and cable television service under part 76 of the Commission's rules.
                

(14) Resolve universal service suspension and debarment proceedings pursuant to ยง 54.521 of this chapter.

(15) Upon referral from the General Counsel pursuant to ยง 0.251(g), impose sanctions for violations of the Commission's ex parte rules including, but not limited to, the imposition of monetary forfeitures, consistent with ยง 0.311.

(16) Resolve complaints regarding other matters assigned to it by the Commission, matters that do not fall within the responsibility of another Bureau or Office or matters that are determined by mutual agreement with another Bureau or Office to be appropriately handled by the Enforcement Bureau.

(17) Identify and analyze complaint information, conduct investigations, conduct external audits and collect information, including pursuant to sections 218, 220, 308(b), 403 and 409(e) through (k) of the Communications Act, in connection with complaints, on its own initiative or upon request of another Bureau or Office.

(18) Issue or draft orders taking or recommending appropriate action in response to complaints or investigations, including, but not limited to, admonishments, damage awards where authorized by law or other affirmative relief, notices of violation, notices of apparent liability and related orders, notices of opportunity for hearing regarding a potential forfeiture, hearing designation orders, orders designating licenses or other authorizations for a revocation hearing and consent decrees. Issue or draft appropriate orders after a hearing has been terminated by an Administrative Law Judge on the basis of waiver. Issue or draft appropriate interlocutory orders and take or recommend appropriate action in the exercise of its responsibilities.

(19) Encourage cooperative compliance efforts.

(20) Mediate and settle disputes.

(21) Provide information regarding pending complaints, compliance with relevant requirements and the complaint process, where appropriate and to the extent the information is not available from the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau or other Bureaus and Offices.

(22) Exercise responsibility for rulemaking proceedings regarding general enforcement policies and procedures.

(23) Advise the Commission or responsible Bureau or Office regarding the enforcement implications of existing and proposed rules.

(24) Serve as the primary point of contact for coordinating enforcement matters, including market and consumer enforcement matters, with other federal, state and local government agencies, as well as with foreign governments after appropriate consultation, and provide assistance to such entities. Refer matters to such entities, as well as to private sector entities, as appropriate.

(25) Resolve complaints alleging violations of the open Internet rules.

(b) Serve as trial staff in formal hearings conducted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 556 regarding applications, revocation, forfeitures and other matters designated for hearing.

(c) In coordination with the International Bureau, participate in international conferences dealing with monitoring and measurement; serve as the point of contact for the U.S. Government in matters of international monitoring, fixed and mobile direction-finding and interference resolution; and oversee coordination of non-routine communications and materials between the Commission and international or regional public organizations or foreign administrations.

(d) In conjunction with the Office of Engineering and Technology, work with technical standards bodies.

(e) Oversee the Commission's privatized ship radio safety inspection program.
                

(f) Provide field support for, and field representation of, the Bureau, other Bureaus and Offices and the Commission. Coordinate with other Bureaus and Offices as appropriate.

(g) Handle congressional and other correspondence relating to or requesting specific enforcement actions, specific complaints or other specific matters within the responsibility of the Bureau, to the extent not otherwise handled by the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau, the Office of General Counsel (impermissible ex parte presentations) or another Bureau or Office;

(h) Have authority to issue non-hearing related subpoenas for the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, schedules of charges, contracts, agreements, and any other records deemed relevant to the investigation of matters within the responsibility of the Bureau. Before issuing a subpoena, the Enforcement Bureau shall obtain the approval of the Office of General Counsel.

(i) Perform such other functions as may be assigned or referred to it by the Commission.

