The Office of Inspector General is directly responsible to the Chairman as head of the agency. However, the Chairman may not prevent or prohibit the Office of Inspector General from carrying out its duties and responsibilities as mandated by the Inspector General Act Amendments of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-504) and the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. Appendix 3), as amended. The Office has the following duties and responsibilities.

(a) Provide policy direction for and to conduct, supervise and coordinate audits and investigations relating to the programs and operations of the Federal Communications Commission.

(b) Review existing and proposed legislation and regulations relating to programs and operations of the Commission and to make recommendations in its required semiannual reports to Congress concerning the impact of such legislation or regulations on the economy and efficiency in the administration of these programs and operations, or the prevention and detection of fraud and abuse in such programs and operations.

(c) Recommend policies and conduct or coordinate other activities to promote economy and efficiency in the administration of Commission programs, or detect and prevent fraud and abuse in Commission activities. Coordinate with other governmental agencies and non-governmental entities on these matters.

(d) Keep the Chairman of the Commission—and through him the other Commissioners—and the Congress fully and currently informed concerning fraud and other serious problems, abuses, and deficiencies relating to the administration of Commission programs and operations; recommend corrective action and report on the progress made in implementing such corrective action. In addition to providing the Chairman with the results of completed audits and inspections, the Inspector General shall prepare statutorily required reports, identified as such, to include:

(1) Semiannual reports summarizing activities of the office during the preceding six month period (due to the Chairman by April 30 and October 31);

(2) Special reports specifically identifying any serious or flagrant problems, abuses or deficiencies (due to the Chairman immediately upon discovery of these matters by the Inspector General).

