(a) As specified in the Commission's Continuity of Operations Plan and consistent with the exercise of the War Emergency Powers of the President as set forth in section 706 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, if the full Commission or a quorum thereof is unable to act, an Emergency Relocation Board will be convened at the Commission's Headquarters or other relocation site designated to serve as Primary FCC Staff to perform the functions of the Commission. Relocation may be required to accommodate a variety of emergency scenarios. Examples include scenarios in which FCC headquarters is unavailable or uninhabitable; or many, if not all, agencies must evacuate the immediate Washington, DC, area. The FCC's Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) includes the deliberate and pre-planned movement of selected key principals and supporting staff to a relocation facility. As an example, a sudden emergency, such as a fire or hazardous materials incident, may require the evacuation of FCC headquarters with little or no advance notice, but for only a short duration. Alternatively, an emergency so severe that FCC headquarters is rendered unusable and likely will be for a period long enough to significantly impact normal operations, may require COOP implementation. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to diminish the authority of the Commission or its staff to perform functions of the Commission at the Commission's headquarters or other relocation site using existing authority provided for elsewhere in this Chapter.

(b) The Board shall comprise such Commissioners as may be present (including Commissioners available through electronic communications or telephone) and able to act. In the absence of the Chairman, the Commissioner present with the longest seniority in office will serve as acting Chairman. If no Commissioner is present and able to act, the person designated as next most senior official in the Commission's Continuity of Operations Plan will head the Board.

