The Defense Commissioner is designated by the Commission. The Defense Commissioner directs the homeland security, national security and emergency preparedness, and defense activities of the Commission and has the following duties and responsibilities:

(a) To keep the Commission informed as to significant developments in the field of homeland security, emergency preparedness, defense, and any related activities that involve formulation or revision of Commission policy in any area of responsibility of the Commission.

(b) To represent the Commission in public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency preparedness, disaster management, defense and related matters requiring conferences or communications with other governmental officers, departments, or agencies.

(c) To act as the Homeland Security and Defense Coordinator in representations with other agencies with respect to planning for the continuity of the essential functions of the Commission under emergency conditions.

(d) To serve as a member of the Joint Telecommunications Resources Board (JTRB).

(e) To serve as the principal point of contact for the Commission on all matters pertaining to the Department of Homeland Security.

(f) To take such measures as will assure continuity of the Commission's functions under any foreseeable circumstances with a minimum of interruption. In the event of an emergency, the Defense Commissioner, in consultation with the Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, will decide whether to activate the Commission's Continuity of Operations (COOP) plan and/or initiate the Commission's emergency response procedures.

(g) In the event of enemy attack, or the imminent threat thereof, or other disaster resulting in the inability of the Commission to function at its offices in Washington, D.C., to assume all of the duties and responsibilities of the Commission and the Chairman, until relieved or augmented by other Commissioners or members of the staff, as set forth in §§ 0.186 and 0.383.

(h) To approve national emergency plans and develop preparedness programs covering: provision of service by common carriers; broadcasting and cable facilities, satellite and the wireless radio services; radio frequency assignment; electromagnetic radiation; investigation and enforcement.

(i) To perform such other duties and assume such other responsibilities related to the Commission's defense activities as may be necessary for the continuity of functions and the protection of Commission personnel and property.

(j) The Commission may designate an Alternate Defense Commissioner who is authorized to perform the functions of the Defense Commissioner if he or she is not available.

(k) To decide, in response to a request by the Public Safety Broadband Licensee whether circumstances warrant emergency priority access by first responder public safety entities to the Upper 700 MHz D Block license spectrum.

