The Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau advises and makes recommendations to the Commission, or acts for the Commission under delegated authority, in all matters pertaining to public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management and preparedness, disaster management, and ancillary operations. The Bureau has responsibility for coordinating public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management and preparedness, disaster management, and related activities within the Commission. The Bureau also performs the following functions.

(a) Develops, recommends, and administers policy goals, objectives, rules, regulations, programs and plans for the Commission to promote effective and reliable communications for public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management and preparedness, disaster management and related activities, including public safety communications (including 911, enhanced 911, and other emergency number issues), priority emergency communications, alert and warning systems (including the Emergency Alert System), continuity of government operations, implementation of Homeland Security Presidential Directives and Orders, disaster management coordination and outreach, communications infrastructure protection, reliability, operability and interoperability of networks and communications systems, the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA), and network security. Recommends policies and procedures for public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management and preparedness, and recommends national emergency plans and preparedness programs covering Commission functions during national emergency conditions. Conducts outreach and coordination activities with, among others, state and local governmental agencies, hospitals and other emergency health care providers, and public safety organizations. Recommends national emergency plans, policies, and preparedness programs covering the provision of service by communications service providers, including telecommunications service providers, information service providers, common carriers, and non-common carriers; broadcasting and cable facilities; satellite and wireless radio services; radio frequency assignment; electro-magnetic radiation; investigation and enforcement.

(b) Under the general direction of the Defense Commissioner, coordinates the public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management and preparedness, disaster management, and related activities of the Commission, including national security and emergency preparedness and defense mobilization, Continuity of Government (COG) planning, alert and warning systems (including the Emergency Alert System), and other functions as may be delegated during a national emergency or activation of the President's war emergency powers as specified in section 706 of the Communications Act. Provides support to the Defense Commissioner, including with respect to his or her participation in the Joint Telecommunications Resources Board, and the National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee and other public safety and homeland security organizations and committees. Represents the Defense Commissioner with other Government agencies and organizations, the communications industry, and Commission licensees on public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management and preparedness, disaster management, and related issues. Keeps the Defense Commissioner informed as to significant developments in the fields of public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management, and disaster management activities, and related areas.

(c) Develops and administers rules, regulations, and policies for priority emergency communications, including the Telecommunications Service Priority System. Supports the Chiefs of the Wireline Competition, International and Wireless Telecommunications Bureaus on matters involving assignment of Telecommunications Service Priority System priorities and in administration of that system.

(d) The Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, or that person's designee, acts as FCC Alternate Homeland Security and Defense Coordinator and principal to the National Communications System, and the Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, or that person's designee, shall serve as the Commission's representative on National Communications Systems Committees.

(e) Conducts rulemaking proceedings and acts on requests for interpretation or waiver of rules.
                

(f) Advises and makes recommendations to the Commission, or acts for the Commission under delegated authority, in all matters pertaining to the licensing and regulation of public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management and preparedness, and disaster management wireless telecommunications, including ancillary operations related to the provision or use of such services. These activities include: policy development and coordination; conducting rulemaking and adjudicatory proceedings, including complaint proceedings for matters not within the responsibility of the Enforcement Bureau; acting on waivers of rules; acting on applications for service and facility authorizations; compliance and enforcement activities for matters not within the responsibility of the Enforcement Bureau; determining resource impacts of existing, planned or recommended Commission activities concerning wireless telecommunications, and developing and recommending resource deployment priorities. In addition, advises and assists public safety entities on wireless telecommunications issues and matters related thereto. Administers all authority previously delegated to the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau (including those delegations expressly provided to the Public Safety and Critical Infrastructure Division of the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau) in Improving Public Safety Communications in the 800 MHz Band, WT Docket 02-55.

(g) Conducts studies of public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management and preparedness, disaster management, and related issues. Develops and administers recordkeeping and reporting requirements for communications companies pertaining to these issues. Administers any Commission information collection requirements pertaining to public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management and preparedness, disaster management, and related issues, including the communications disruption reporting requirements set forth in part 4 of this chapter and revision of the filing system and template used for the submission of those communications disruption reports.

(h) Interacts with the public, local, state, and other governmental agencies and industry groups (including advisory committees and public safety organizations and associations) on public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management, disaster management and related issues. As requested, represents the Commission at meetings and conferences. Serves as the point of contact for the U.S. Government in matters of international monitoring, fixed and mobile direction-finding and interference resolution; and oversees coordination of non-routine communications and materials between the Commission and international or regional public organizations or foreign administrations.

(i) Maintains and operates the Commission's public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management and preparedness, and disaster management facilities and operations, including the Communications Center, the establishment of any Emergency Operations Center (EOC), and any liaison activities with other federal, state, or local government organizations.

(j) Reviews and coordinates orders, programs and actions initiated by other Bureaus and Offices in matters affecting public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management and preparedness, disaster management and related issues to ensure consistency with overall Commission policy. Provides advice to the Commission and other Bureaus and offices regarding the public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management, and disaster management implications of existing and proposed rules.

(k) Develops and recommends responses to legislative, regulatory or judicial inquiries and proposals concerning or affecting public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management, disaster management and related issues. Responses to judicial inquiries should be developed with and recommended to the Office of General Counsel.
                

(l) Develops and maintains the Commission's plans and procedures, including the oversight, preparation, and training of Commission personnel, for Continuity of Operations (COOP), Continuity of Government functions, and Commission activities and responses to national emergencies and other similar situations.

(m) Acts on emergency requests for Special Temporary Authority during non-business hours when the other Offices and Bureaus of the Commission are closed. Such actions shall be coordinated with, if possible, and promptly reported to the responsible Bureau or Office.

(n) Maintains liaison with other Bureaus and Offices concerning matters affecting public safety, homeland security, national security, emergency management and preparedness, disaster management and related issues.

(o) Is authorized to declare that a temporary state of communications emergency exists pursuant to ยง 97.401(b) of this chapter and to act on behalf of the Commission with respect to the operation of amateur stations during such temporary state of communications emergency.

(p) Performs such other functions and duties as may be assigned or referred to it by the Commission or the Defense Commissioner.

(q) Oversees the Emergency Response Interoperability Center, establishes the intergovernmental advisory committees described under ยง 0.192(b), and administers the agency's responsibilities in connection with such committees.

