(a) Authority to issue orders and to enter into correspondence. Any official (or group of officials) to whom authority is delegated in this subpart is authorized to issue orders (including rulings, decisions, or other action documents) pursuant to such authority and to enter into general correspondence concerning any matter for which he is responsible under this subpart or subpart A of this part.

(b) Authority of subordinate officials. Authority delegated to any official to issue orders or to enter into correspondence under paragraph (a) of this section may be exercised by that official or by appropriate subordinate officials acting for him.

(c) Signature. (1) Other orders made by a committee, board or panel identify the body and are signed by the Secretary.

(2) Upon signing an order, the Secretary affixes the Commission's seal.

(3) General correspondence by a committee or board is signed by the committee or board chairman.

(4) All other orders and letters are signed by the official who has given final approval of their contents.

(5) With the exception of license forms requiring the signature of an appropriate official of the issuing bureau or office, license forms bear only the seal of the Commission.

(d) Form of orders. Orders may be issued in any appropriate form (e.g., as captioned orders, letters, telegrams) and may, if appropriate, be issued orally. Orders issued orally shall, if practicable, be confirmed promptly in writing.

(e) Minutes entries. Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, actions taken as provided in paragraph (d) of this section shall be recorded in writing and filed in the official minutes of the Commission.

