(a) The Managing Director, or his designee, upon securing concurrence of the General Counsel, is delegated authority to act upon requests for waiver, reduction or deferment of fees, establish payment dates, and issue notices proposing amendments or adjustments to the fee schedules established under part 1, subpart G, of this chapter.

(b) The Managing Director, or his designee, is delegated authority to make nonsubstantive, editorial revisions of the Commission's rules and regulations upon approval of the bureau or staff office primarily responsible for the particular part or section involved.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) The Managing Director, or his designee, upon securing the concurrence of the General Counsel, is delegated authority, within the purview of the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended, 28 U.S.C. 2672, to grant tort claims directed against the Commission where the amount of the claim does not exceed $5,000. In addition thereto, the Managing Director, or his designee, upon securing the concurrence of the General Counsel, is delegated authority to act in the disposition of claims arising under the Military Personnel and Civilian Employees' Claims Act, as amended, 31 U.S.C. 3701 and 3721, where the amount of the claim does not exceed $6,500.

(e) The Managing Director is delegated authority to act as Head of the Procurement Activity and Contracting Officer for the Commission and to designate appropriate subordinate officials to act as Contracting Officers for the Commission.

(f) (1) The Managing Director, or his designee, is delegated authority to perform all administrative determinations provided for by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996, Public Laws 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321, 1358 (1996) (DCIA), including, but not limited to the provisions of Title 31, United States Code section 3711 to:
                

(i) Collect claims of the United States Government for money or property arising out of the activities of, or referred to, the Federal Communications Commission,

(ii) Compromise a claim of the Government of not more than $100,000 (excluding interest) or such higher amount as the Attorney General of the United States may from time to time prescribe, and

(iii) Suspend or end collection action on a claim of the Government of not more than $100,000 (excluding interest) when it appears that no person liable on the claim has the present or prospective ability to pay a significant amount of the claim or the cost of collecting the claim is likely to be more than the amount recovered.

(2)(i) This delegation does not include waiver authority provided by 31 U.S.C. 3720B.

(ii) The Chief Financial Officer, or the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, is delegated authority to perform all administrative determinations provided for by 31 U.S.C. 3720B.

(g) The Managing Director, after consultation with the Chairman shall establish, renew, and terminate all Federal advisory committees. He shall also exercise all management responsibilities under the Federal Advisory Committee Act as amended (Pub. L. No. 92-463, 5 U.S.C. App.).

(h) [Reserved]

(i) The Secretary, acting under the supervision of the Managing Director, serves as the official custodian of the Commission's documents and shall have authority to appoint a deputy or deputies for the purposes of custody and certification of documents located in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania or other established locations. The Secretary is delegated authority to rule on requests for extensions of time based on operational problems associated with the Commission's electronic comment filing system. See ยง 1.46 of this chapter.

(j) The Managing Director or his designee is delegated the authority, after seeking the opinion of the General Counsel, to determine, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for federal agencies the organizations, programs (including funds), and accounts that are required to be included in the financial statements of the Commission.

(k) The Managing Director, or his designee, after seeking the opinion of the General Counsel, is delegated the authority to direct all organizations, programs (including funds), and accounts that are required to be included in the financial statements of the Commission to comply with all relevant and applicable federal financial management and reporting statutes.

