(a) The performance of functions and activities described in § 0.31 is delegated to the Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology: Provided, that the following matters shall be referred to the Commission en banc for disposition:

(1) Notices of proposed rulemaking and of inquiry and final orders in rulemaking proceedings, inquiry proceedings and non-editorial orders making changes, except that the Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology is delegated authority, together with the Chief of the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, to adopt certain technical standards applicable to hearing aid compatibility under § 20.19 of this chapter, as specified in § 20.19(k).

(2) Petitions for review of actions taken to delegated authority. See § 1.115 of this chapter.

(3) Petitions and other requests for waivers of the Commission's rules, whether or not accompanied by an applications, when such petitions or requests contain new or novel arguments not previously considered by the Commission or present facts or arguments which appear to justify a change in Commission policy.

(4) Petitions and other requests for declaratory rulings, when such petitions or requests contain new or novel arguments not previously considered by the Commission or preset facts or arguments which appear to justify a change in Commission policy.

(5) Any other petition, pleading or request presenting new or novel questions of fact, law, or policy which cannot be resolved under outstanding precedents and guidelines.

(6) Any other complaint or enforcement matter presenting new or novel questions of fact, law, or policy which cannot be resolved under outstanding precedents and guidelines.

(7) Authority to issued a notice of opportunity for hearing pursuant to § 1.80(g) of this chapter; and authority to issue notices of apparent liability, final forfeiture orders, and orders cancelling or reducing forfeitures imposed under § 1.80(f) of this chapter, if the amount set out in the notice of apparent liability is more than $20,000.

(8) Proposed actions following any case remanded by the courts.

(b) The Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology is delegated authority to administer the Equipment Authorization program as described in part 2 of this chapter.

(c) The Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology is delegated authority to administer the Experimental Radio licensing program pursuant to part 5 of this chapter.

(d) The Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology is delegated authority to examine all applications for certification (approval) of subscription television technical systems as acceptable for use under a subscription television authorization as provided for in this chapter, to notify the applicant that an examination of the certified technical information and data submitted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter indicates that the system does or does not appear to be acceptable for authorization as a subscription television system. This delegation shall be exercised in consultation with the Chief, Media Bureau.

(e) The Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology is authorized to dismiss or deny petitions for rulemaking which are repetitive or moot or which for other reasons plainly do not warrant consideration by the Commission.

(f) The Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology is authorized to enter into agreements with the National Institute of Standards and Technology and other accreditation bodies to perform accreditation of test laboratories pursuant to § 2.948(d) of this chapter. In addition, the Chief is authorized to make determinations regarding the continued acceptability of individual accrediting organizations and accredited laboratories.

(g) The Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology is delegated authority to enter into agreements with the National Institute of Standards and Technology to perform accreditation of Telecommunication Certification Bodies (TCBs) pursuant to §§ 2.960 and 2.962 of this chapter. In addition, the Chief is delegated authority to develop specific methods that will be used to accredit TCBs, to designate TCBs, to make determinations regarding the continued acceptability of individual TCBs, and to develop procedures that TCBs will use for performing post-market surveillance.

(h) The Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology is delegated authority to administer the database functions for unlicensed devices operating in the television broadcast bands (TV bands) as set forth in subpart H of part 15 of this chapter. The Chief is delegated authority to develop specific methods that will be used to designate TV bands database managers, to designate these database managers; to develop procedures that these database managers will use to ensure compliance with the requirements for database operations; to make determinations regarding the continued acceptability of individual database managers; and to perform other functions as needed for the administration of the TV bands databases. The Chief is also delegated authority jointly with the Chief of the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau to administer provisions of § 15.713(h)(8) of this chapter pertaining to the registration of event sites where large numbers of wireless microphones that operate on frequencies specified in § 74.802 of this chapter are used.

(i) The Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology is delegated authority to make nonsubstantive, editorial revisions to the Commission's rules and regulations contained in parts 2, 4, 5, 15, and 18 of this chapter.

