The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, is hereby delegated authority to perform all functions of the Bureau, described in § 0.91, subject to the following exceptions and limitations.

(a) Authority concerning applications. (1) The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau shall not have authority to act on any formal or informal common carrier applications or section 214 applications for common carrier services which are in hearing status.

(2) The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau shall not have authority to act on any applications or requests which present novel questions of fact, law or policy which cannot be resolved under outstanding precedents and guidelines.

(b) Authority concerning section 220 of the Act. The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau shall not have authority to promulgate regulations or orders prescribing permanent depreciation rates for common carriers, or to prescribe interim depreciation rates to be effective more than one year, pursuant to section 220 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.

(c) Authority concerning forfeitures. The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau shall not have authority to impose, reduce or cancel forfeitures pursuant to Section 203 or Section 503(b) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, in amounts of more than $80,000.

(d) Authority concerning applications for review. The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau shall not have authority to act upon any applications for review of actions taken by the Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, pursuant to any delegated authority.

(e) Authority concerning rulemaking and investigatory proceedings. The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, shall not have authority to issue notices of proposed rulemaking, notices of inquiry, or reports or orders arising from either of the foregoing, except that the Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, shall have authority, in consultation and coordination with the Chief, International Bureau, to issue and revise a manual on the details of the reporting requirements for international carriers referenced in § 43.61(a)(3) of this chapter.

(f) Authority concerning the issuance of subpoenas. The Chief of the Wireline Competition Bureau or her/his designee is authorized to issue non-hearing related subpoenas for the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, schedules of charges, contracts, agreements, and any other records deemed relevant to the investigation of matters within the jurisdiction of the Wireline Competition Bureau. Before issuing a subpoena, the Bureau shall obtain the approval of the Office of General Counsel.

(g) The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, is delegated authority to enter into agreements with the National Institute of Standards and Technology to perform accreditation of Telecommunication Certification Bodies (TCBs) pursuant to §§ 68.160 and 68.162 of this chapter. In addition, the Chief is delegated authority to develop specific methods that will be used to accredit TCBs, to designate TCBs, to make determinations regarding the continued acceptability of individual TCBs and to develop procedures that TCBs will use for performing post-market surveillance.

(h) Authority concerning petitions for pricing flexibility. (1) The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, shall have authority to act on petitions filed pursuant to part 69, subpart H, of this chapter for pricing flexibility involving special access and dedicated transport services. This authority is not subject to the limitation set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, shall not have authority to act on petitions filed pursuant to part 69, subpart H, of this chapter for pricing flexibility involving common line and traffic sensitive services.

(i) Authority concerning schools and libraries support mechanism audits. The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, shall have authority to address audit findings relating to the schools and libraries support mechanism. This authority is not subject to the limitation set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

