The Office of Engineering and Technology has the following duties and responsibilities:

(a) To evaluate evolving technology for interference potential and to suggest ways to facilitate its introduction in response to Bureau initiatives, and advise the Commission and staff offices in such matters.
                

(b) Represent the Commission at various national conferences and meetings (and, in consultation with the International Bureau, at various international conferences and meetings) devoted to the progress of communications and the development of technical and other information and standards, and serve as Commission coordinator for the various national conferences when appropriate.

(c) To conduct scientific and technical studies in advanced phases of terrestrial and space communications, and special projects to obtain theoretical and experimental data on new or improved techniques.

(d) To advise the Commission concerning engineering matters, including (in consultation with the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau where appropriate) privacy and security of communications, involved in making or implementing policy or in resolving specific cases.

(e) To develop and implement procedures to acquire, store, and retrieve scientific and technical information useful in the engineering work of the Commission.

(f) To advise and represent the Commission on frequency allocation and spectrum usage matters.

(g) To render, in cooperation with the General Counsel and the Office of Strategic Planning and Policy Analysis, advice to the Commission, participate in and coordinate staff work with respect to general frequency allocation proceedings and other proceedings not within the jurisdiction of any single bureau, and render service and advice with respect to rule making matters and proceedings affecting more than one Bureau.

(h) To collaborate with and advise other Bureaus and Offices in the formulation of technical requirements of the Rules.

(i) To administer parts 2, 5, 15, and 18 of this chapter, including licensing, recordkeeping, and rule making.

(j) To perform all engineering and management functions of the Commission with respect to formulating rules and regulations, technical standards, and general policies for parts 15, 18 and ยง 63.100 of this chapter, and for type approval and acceptance, and certification of radio equipment for compliance with the Rules.

(k) To maintain liaison with other agencies of government, technical experts representing foreign governments, and members of the public and industry concerned with communications and frequency allocation and usage.

(l) To calibrate and standardize technical equipment and installations used by the Commission.

(m) To exercise authority as may be assigned or referred by the Commission pursuant to section 5(c) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.

(n) To assist the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau on issues involving informal consumer complaints and other general inquiries by consumers.

