The Chief, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, is hereby delegated authority to perform all functions of the Bureau, described in § 0.131, subject to the exceptions and limitations in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, and also the functions described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(a) Authority concerning applications. (1) The Chief, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau shall not have authority to act on any radio applications that are in hearing status.

(2) The Chief, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau shall not have authority to act on any complaints, petitions or requests, whether or not accompanied by an application, when such complaints, petitions or requests present new or novel questions of law or policy which cannot be resolved under outstanding Commission precedents and guidelines.

(b) Authority concerning forfeitures and penalties. The Chief, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, shall not have authority to impose, reduce, or cancel forfeitures pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and imposed under regulations in this chapter in amounts of more than $80,000 for commercial radio providers and $20,000 for private radio providers. Payments for bid withdrawal, default or to prevent unjust enrichment that are imposed pursuant to Section 309(j) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and regulations in this chapter implementing Section 309(j) governing auction authority, are excluded from this restriction.

(c) Authority concerning applications for review. The Chief, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau shall not have authority to act upon any applications for review of actions taken by the Chief, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau pursuant to any delegated authority, except that the Chief may dismiss any such application that does not comply with the filing requirements of § 1.115 (d) and (f) of this chapter.

(d) Authority concerning rulemaking proceedings. The Chief, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau shall not have the authority to act upon notices of proposed rulemaking and inquiry, final orders in rulemaking proceedings and inquiry proceedings, and reports arising from any of the foregoing except such orders involving ministerial conforming amendments to rule parts, or orders conforming any of the applicable rules to formally adopted international conventions or agreements where novel questions of fact, law, or policy are not involved. In addition, revisions to the airport terminal use list in § 90.35(c)(61) of this chapter and revisions to the Government Radiolocation list in § 90.371(b) of this chapter need not be referred to the Commission. Adoption of certain technical standards applicable to hearing aid compatibility under § 20.19 of this chapter made together with the Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology, as specified in § 20.19(k) of this chapter, also need not be referred to the Commission. Also, the addition of new Marine VHF frequency coordination committee(s) to § 80.514 of this chapter need not be referred to the Commission if they do not involve novel questions of fact, policy or law, as well as requests by the United States Coast Guard to:

(1) Designate radio protection areas for mandatory Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) and establish marine channels as VTS frequencies for these areas; or

(2) Designate regions for shared commercial and non-commercial vessel use of VHF marine frequencies.

(3) Designate by footnote to frequency table in § 80.373(f) of this chapter marine VHF frequencies are available for intership port operations communications in defined port areas.

(e) The Chief of the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau is delegated authority jointly with the Chief of the Office of Engineering and Technology to administer provisions of § 15.713(h)(8) of this chapter pertaining to the registration of event sites where large numbers of wireless microphones that operate on frequencies specified in § 74.802 of this chapter are used.

