The Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, is hereby delegated authority to perform all functions of the Bureau, described in §§ 0.191 and 0.192, subject to the following exceptions and limitations in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.

(a) The Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau shall not have authority to act on any applications or requests that present novel questions of fact, law or policy that cannot be resolved under outstanding precedents and guidelines.

(b) The Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau shall not have authority to act upon any applications for review of actions taken by the Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, pursuant to any delegated authority.

(c) The Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau shall not have authority to act upon any formal or informal radio application or section 214 application for common carrier services which is in hearing status.
                

(d) The Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau shall not have authority to impose, reduce, or cancel forfeitures pursuant to section 203 or section 503(b) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, in amounts of more than $80,000 for common carrier providers and $20,000 for non-common carrier providers.

(e) The Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau shall not have authority to issue notices of proposed rulemaking, notices of inquiry, or reports or orders arising from either of the foregoing except such orders involving ministerial conforming amendments to rule parts, or orders conforming any of the applicable rules to formally adopted international conventions or agreements where novel questions of fact, law, or policy are not involved.

(f) The Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau or her/his designee has the authority to rule on emergency requests for Special Temporary Authority during non-business hours. Action on emergency requests for Special Temporary Authority during non-business hours shall be promptly reported to the responsible Bureau or Office.

(g) The Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau is authorized to declare that a temporary state of communications emergency exists pursuant to § 97.401(b) of this chapter and to act on behalf of the Commission with respect to the operation of amateur stations during such temporary state of communications emergency.

(h) The Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau or her/his designee is authorized to issue non-hearing related subpoenas for the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, schedules of charges, contracts, agreements, and any other records deemed relevant to the investigation of matters within the jurisdiction of the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau. Before issuing a subpoena, the Bureau shall obtain the approval of the Office of General Counsel.

(i) The Chief of the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau is delegated authority to administer the communications disruption reporting requirements contained in part 4 of this chapter and to revise the filing system and template used for the submission of such communications disruption reports.

