The Commission has established a policy regarding the printing of blank FCC forms by private companies if they elect to do so as a matter of expediency and convenience to their clients or consumers. The policy is as follows:

(a) Blank FCC forms may be reproduced by private companies at their own expense provided the following conditions are met:

(1) Use a printing process resulting in a product that is at least comparable in quality to the original document, without change to the page size, image size, configuration of pages, folds or perforations, and matching as closely as possible the paper weight, paper color and ink color.

(2) Delete in its entirety any and all U.S. Government Printing Office (GPO) indicia that may appear in the margin(s).

(3) If the printer wishes to identify a foreign country in which the forms are printed, a marginal notation must be added stating “No U.S. Government funds were used to print this document.”

(4) Do not add to the form any other symbol, word or phrase that might be construed as personalizing the form or advertising on it.

(5) Except as specified above, do not delete from or add to any part of the form, or attach anything thereto.

(6) Assure that the form being reproduced is an edition currently acceptable by the Commission, which will endeavor to keep the public advised of revisions to its forms, but cannot assume responsibility to the extent of eliminating any element of risk against the use of obsolete forms.

(b) These guidelines do not apply to forms which respondents may wish to reproduce as completed facsimiles on automated equipment to satisfy application or report requirements. Requests for permission to submit such forms to the Commission should be addressed to the Office of Managing Director.

