The Office of the General Counsel has the following duties and responsibilities:

(a) To advise and represent the Commission in matters of litigation.

(b) To advise and make recommendations to the Commission with respect to proposed legislation and submit agency views on legislation when appropriate.

(c) To interpret the statutes, international agreements, and international regulations affecting the Commission.

(d) To prepare and make recommendations and interpretations concerning procedural rules of general applicability and to review all rules for consistency with other rules, uniformity, and legal sufficiency.

(e) To conduct research in legal matters as directed by the Commission.
                

(f) In cooperation with the Office of Engineering and Technology, to participate in, render advice to the Commission, and coordinate the staff work with respect to general frequency allocation proceedings and other proceedings not within the jurisdiction of any single bureau, and to render advice with respect to rule making matters and proceedings affecting more than one bureau.

(g) To exercise such authority as may be assigned or referred to it by the Commission pursuant to section 5(c) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.

(h) To cooperate with the International Bureau on all matters pertaining to space satellite communications.

(i) To interpret statutes and executive orders affecting the Commission's national defense responsibilities, and to perform such functions involving implementation of such statutes and executive orders as may be assigned to it by the Commission or the Defense Commissioner.

(j) To perform all legal functions with respect to leases, contracts, tort claims and such other internal legal problems as may arise.

(k) To issue determinations on matters regarding the interception and recording of telephone conversations by Commission personnel. Nothing in this paragraph, however, shall affect the authority of the Inspector General to intercept or record telephone conversations as necessary in the conduct of investigations or audits.

(l) To advise the Commission in the preparation and revision of rules and the implementation and administration of ethics regulations and the Freedom of Information, Privacy, Government in the Sunshine and Alternative Dispute Resolution Acts.

(m) To assist and make recommendations to the Commission, and to individual Commissioners assigned to review initial decisions, as to the disposition of cases of adjudication and such other cases as, by Commission policy, are handled in the same manner and which have been designated for hearing.

(n) To serve as the principal operating office on ex parte matters involving restricted proceedings. To review and dispose of all ex parte communications received from the public and others.

