(a) Adjudicatory opinions and orders of the Commission, or its staff acting on delegated authority, are mailed or delivered by electronic means to the parties, and as part of the record, are available for inspection in accordance with §§ 0.453 and 0.455.

(b) Texts adopted by the Commission or a member of its staff on delegated authority and released through the Office of Media Relations are published in the FCC Record. Older materials of this nature are available in the FCC Reports. In the event that such older materials are not published in the FCC Reports, reference should be made to the Federal Register or Pike and Fischer Communications Regulation.

(c) All rulemaking documents or summaries thereof are published in the Federal Register and are available on the Commission's Web site. The complete text of the Commission decision also is released by the Commission and is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the Office of Media Relations, the Reference Information Center, via the Electronic Comment Filing System (ECFS), or as otherwise specified in the rulemaking document published in the Federal Register. The complete texts of rulemaking decisions may also be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor.

(d) Formal policy statements and interpretations designed to have general applicability are published in the Federal Register, the FCC Record, FCC Reports, or Pike and Fischer Communications Regulation. Commission decisions and other Commission documents not entitled formal policy statements or interpretations may contain substantive interpretations and statements regarding policy, and these are published as part of the document in the FCC Record, FCC Reports or Pike and Fischer Communications Regulation. General statements regarding policy and interpretations furnished to individuals, in correspondence or otherwise, are not ordinarily published.

(e) If the documents described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section are published in the Federal Register, the FCC Record, FCC Reports, or Pike and Fischer Communications Regulation, they are indexed, and they may be relied upon, used or cited as precedent by the Commission or private parties in any manner. If they are not so published, they may not be relied upon, used or cited as precedent, except against persons who have actual notice of the document in question or by such persons against the Commission. No person is expected to comply with any requirement or policy of the Commission unless he or she has actual notice of that requirement or policy or a document stating it has been published as provided in this paragraph. Nothing in this paragraph, however, shall be construed as precluding a reference to a recent document that is pending publication.

(f) Subparts A and B of this part describe the functions of the staff and list the matters on which authority has been delegated to the staff. All general instructions to the staff and limitations upon its authority are set forth in those subparts or in decisions of the Commission published in the Federal Register. Instructions to the staff in particular matters or cases are privileged and/or protected and are not published or made available for public inspection.
                

(g) To the extent required to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, or to prevent disclosure of information required or authorized to be withheld by another statute, the Commission may delete identifying details or confidential information when it makes available or publishes any document described in this section. The justification for any such deletion will be fully explained in a preamble to the document.

