Except as provided in §§ 0.453, 0.457, and 0.459, records are routinely available for inspection in the Reference Information Center or the offices of the Bureau or Office which exercises responsibility over the matters to which those records pertain (see § 0.5), or will be made available for inspection at those offices upon request. Upon inquiry to the appropriate Bureau or Office, persons desiring to inspect such records will be directed to the specific location at which the particular records may be inspected. Examples of the records available from Bureaus and Offices are set forth in paragraphs (a) through (c).

(a) Media Bureau. (1) Rulings under secs. 312(a)(7), 315, and 317 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended;

(2) All materials associated with a rate proceeding for basic cable service and associated equipment over which the Commission has assumed jurisdiction pursuant to § 76.913 of this chapter;

(3) All materials associated with Commission review of franchise authority decisions concerning the rate charged for the basic cable service tier and associated equipment pursuant to § 76.944 of this chapter;

(4) All materials associated with local government requests for authorization to regulate basic cable rates pursuant to § 76.910 of this chapter (Form 328);

(5) All materials associated with the certification of Open Video System (OVS) operators pursuant to § 76.1502 of this chapter;

(6) A list of all registered cable communities is maintained electronically at http://www.fcc.gov/mb; and

(7) Public notices issued related to CARS licenses, Cable Special Relief Petitions, and other filings are available electronically at http://www.fcc.gov/Document_Indexes/Media/.

(b) Office of Managing Director. (1) All minutes of Commission actions, containing a record of all final votes, minutes of actions and internal management matters as provided in § 0.457(b)(1) and (c)(1)(i). These records and files are available for inspection in the Office of the Secretary.

(2) Files containing information concerning the history of the Commission's rules. These files are available for inspection in the Office of the Secretary.

(3) Reports filed by employees pursuant to 5 CFR Parts 2634 and 3902 and applications for inspection of such reports. See § 0.460(k).

(c) International Bureau. (1) The treaties and other international and bilateral agreements listed in § 73.1650 of this chapter are available for inspection in the office of the Chief, Strategic Analysis and Negotiations Division, International Bureau.

(2) Contracts and other arrangement filed under § 43.51 of this chapter and reports of negotiations regarding foreign communication matters filed under § 43.52 of this chapter, except those kept confidential pursuant to sec. 412 of the Communications Act. See § 0.457(c)(3).

(3) Files relating to international settlements under part 64 of this chapter.

