(a) Principal staff units. The Commission is assisted in the performance of its responsibilities by its staff, which is divided into the following principal units:

(1) Office of Managing Director.

(2) Office of Engineering and Technology.

(3) Office of General Counsel.

(4) Office of Strategic Planning and Policy Analysis.

(5) Office of Media Relations.

(6) Office of Legislative Affairs.

(7) Office of Inspector General.

(8) Office of Communications Business Opportunities.

(9) Office of Administrative Law Judges.

(10) Office of Workplace Diversity

(11) Wireline Competition Bureau.

(12) Wireless Telecommunications Bureau.

(13) International Bureau.

(14) Media Bureau.

(15) Enforcement Bureau.

(16) Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau.

(17) Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau.

(b) Staff responsibilities and functions. The organization and functions of these major staff units are described in detail in §§ 0.11 through 0.151. The defense and emergency preparedness functions of the Commission are set forth separately, beginning at § 0.181. For a complete description of staff functions, reference should be made to those provisions. (See also the U.S. Government Organization Manual, which contains a chart showing the Commission's organization, the names of the members and principal staff officers of the Commission, and other information concerning the Commission.)

(c) Delegations of authority to the staff. Pursuant to section 5(c) of the Communications Act, the Commission has delegated authority to its staff to act on matters which are minor or routine or settled in nature and those in which immediate action may be necessary. See subpart B of this part. Actions taken under delegated authority are subject to review by the Commission, on its own motion or on an application for review filed by a person aggrieved by the action. Except for the possibility of review, actions taken under delegated authority have the same force and effect as actions taken by the Commission. The delegation of authority to a staff officer, however, does not mean that he will exercise that authority in all matters subject to the delegation. In non-hearing matters, the staff is at liberty to refer any matter at any stage to the Commission for action, upon concluding that it involves matters warranting the Commission's consideration, and the Commission may instruct the staff to do so.

(d) Commission action. Matters requiring Commission action, or warranting its consideration, are dealt with by the Commission at regular monthly meetings, or at special meetings called to consider a particular matter. Meetings are normally held at the principal offices of the Commission in the District of Columbia, but may be held elsewhere in the United States. In appropriate circumstances, Commission action may be taken between meetings “by circulation”, which involves the submission of a document to each of the Commissioners for his approval.

(e) Compliance with Federal financial management requirements. Any Bureau or Office recommending Commission action that may affect agency compliance with Federal financial management requirements must confer with the Office of Managing Director. Such items will indicate the position of the Managing Director when forwarded to the Commission. Any Bureau or Office taking action under delegated authority that may affect agency compliance with Federal financial management requirements must confer with the Office of the Managing Director before taking action.

