(a) Upon request, the Commission will notify individuals as to whether it maintains information about them in a system of records and, subject to the provisons of § 0.555(b), will disclose the substance of such information to that individual. In order to properly request notification or access to record information, reference must be made to the Notice described in § 0.552. A table of contents, which is alphabetized by bureau or office, precedes the system descriptions and allows members of the public to easily identify record systems of interest to them. An individual may inquire into information contained in any or all systems of records described in the Notice. However, each inquiry shall be limited to information from systems located within a single bureau or office and shall be addressed to that bureau or office.

(b) Reasonable identification is required of all individuals making requests pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section in order to assure that disclosure of any information is made to the proper person.

(1) Individuals who choose to register a request for information in person may verify their identity by showing any two of the following: social security card; drivers license; employee identification card; medicare card; birth certificate; bank credit card; or other positive means of identification. Documents incorporating a picture and/or signature of the individual shall be produced if possible. If an individual cannot provide suitable documentation for identification, that individual will be required to sign an identity statement stipulating that knowingly or willfully seeking or obtaining access to records about another person under false pretenses is punishable by a fine of up to $5,000.
              

(2) All requests for record information sent by mail shall be signed by the requestor and shall include his printed name, current address and telephone number (if any). Commission officials receiving such requests will attempt to verify the identity of the requestor by comparing his or her signature to those in the record. If the record contains no signatures and if positive identification cannot be made on the basis of other information submitted, the requestor will be required to sign an identity statement and stipulate that knowingly or willfully seeking or obtaining access to records about another person under false pretense is punishable by a fine of up to $5,000.

(3) If positive identification cannot be made on the basis of the information submitted, and if data in the record is so sensitive that unauthorized access could cause harm or embarrassment to the individual to whom the record pertains, the Commission reserves the right to deny access to the record pending the production of additional more satisfactory evidence of identity.
              

(c) All requests for notification of the existence of record information or for access to such information shall be delivered to the business address of the system manager responsible for the system of records in question, except that requests relating to official personnel records shall be addressed to the Associate Managing Director—Personnel Management. Such addresses can be found in the Federal Register Notice described in § 0.552.

(d) A written acknowledgement of receipt of a request for notification and/or access will be provided within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) to the individual making the request. Such an acknowledgement may, if necessary, request any additional information needed to locate a record. A search of all systems of records identified in the individual's request will be made to determine if any records pertaining to the individual are contained therein, and the individual will be notified of the search results as soon as the search has been completed. Normally, a request will be processed and the individual notified of the search results within 30 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) from the date the inquiry is received. However, in some cases, as where records have to be recalled from Federal Record Centers, notification may be delayed. If it is determined that a record pertaining to the individual making the request does exist, the notification will state approximately when the record will be available for personal review. No separate acknowledgement is required if the request can be processed and the individual notified of the search results within the ten-day period.

