(a) An individual may request the amendment of information contained in their record. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the request to amend should be submitted in writing to the system manager responsible for the records. Requests to amend the official personnel records of active FCC employees should be submitted to the Associate Managing Director—Human Resources Management, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, D.C. 20554. Requests to amend official personnel records of former FCC employees should be sent to the Assistant Director for Work Force Information, Compliance and Investigations Group, Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E Street, NW., Washington, D.C. 20415. Any request to amend should contain as a minimum:

(1) The identity verification information required by § 0.554(b)(2) and the information needed to locate the record as required by § 0.554(a).

(2) A brief description of the item or items of information to be amended; and

(3) The reason for the requested change.

(b) A written acknowledgement of the receipt of a request to amend a record will be provided within 10 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays) to the individual requesting the amendment. Such an acknowledgement may, if necessary, request any additional information needed to make a determination. There will be no acknowledgement if the request can be reviewed, processed, and the individual notified of compliance or denial within the 10 day period.

(c) The responsible system manager, or in the case of official personnel records of active FCC employees, the Associate Managing Director—Personnel Management, shall (normally within 30 days) take one of the following actions regarding a request to amend:

(1) If the system manager agrees that an amendment to the record is warranted, the system manager shall:

(i) So advise the individual in writing;

(ii) Correct the record in compliance with the individual's request; and

(iii) If an accounting of disclosures has been made, advise all previous recipients of the fact that the record has been corrected and of the substance of the correction.

(2) If the system manager, after an initial review, does not agree that all or any portion of the record merits amendment, the system manager shall:

(i) Notify the individual in writing of such refusal to amend and the reasons therefore;

(ii) Advise the individual that further administrative review of the initial decision by the full Commission may be sought pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 0.557. (In cases where the request to amend involves official personnel records, review is available exclusively from the Assistant Director for Work Force Information, Compliance and Investigations Group, Office of Personnel Management, Washington, DC 20415; and

(iii) Inform the individual of the procedures for requesting Commission review pursuant to § 0.557.

(d) In reviewing a record in response to a request to amend, the system manager shall assess the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness of the record in light of each data element placed into controversy and the use of the record in making decisions that could possibly affect the individual. Moreover, the system manager shall ajudge the merits of any request to delete information based on whether or not the information in controversy is both relevant and necessary to accomplish a statutory purpose required of the Commission by law or executive order of the President.

