(a) Individuals having been notified that the Commission maintains a record pertaining to them in a system of records may request access to such record in one of three ways: by in person inspection at the system location; by transfer of the record to a nearer location; or by mail.

(1) Individuals who wish to review their records at the system location must do so during regular Commission business hours (8:00 a.m.-4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday). For personal and administrative convenience, individuals are urged to arrange to review a record by appointment. Preferences as to specific dates and times can be made by writing or calling the system manager responsible for the system of records in question at least two days in advance of the desired appointment date, and by providing a telephone number where the individual can be reached during the day in case the appointment must be changed. Verification of identity is required as in ยง 0.554(b)(1) before access will be granted an individual appearing in person. Individuals may be accompanied by a person of his or her own choosing when reviewing a record. However, in such cases, a written statement authorizing discussion of their record in the presence of a Commission representative having physical custody of the records.

(2) Individuals may request that a record be transferred to a Commission field office or installation in the vicinity of his or her home and that access be granted at that location. The addresses of Commission field offices are listed in ยง 0.121. A request to transfer records must specify the exact location where the records should be sent and a telephone number to call when the information is available for review at the field location. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section regarding personal appointments, verification of identity accompanying persons, and disclosure of original records applies equally to this paragraph.

(3) Individuals may request that copies of records be sent directly to them. In such cases, individuals must verify their identity as ยง 0.554(b)(2) and provide an accurate return address. Records shall be sent only to that address.

(b) The disclosure of record information under this section is subject to the following limitations:

(1) Records containing medical information pertaining to an individual are subject to individual access under this section unless, in the judgment of the system manager having custody of the records after consultation with a medical doctor, access to such record information could have an adverse impact on the individual. In such cases, a copy of the record will be delivered to a medical doctor named by the individual.

(2) Classified material, investigative material compiled for law enforcement purposes, investigatory material compiled solely for determining suitability for Federal employment or access to classified information, and certain testing or examination material shall be removed from the records to the extent permitted in the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552(a). Section 0.561 of this subpart sets forth the systems of records maintained by the Commission which are either totally or partially exempt from disclosure under this subparagraph.

(c) No fee will be imposed if the number of pages of records requested is 25 or less. Requests involving more than 25 pages shall be submitted to the duplicating contractor (see ยง 0.456(a)).

(d) The provisions of this section in no way give an individual the right to access any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.

(e) In the event that a determination is made denying an individual access to records pertaining to that individual for any reason, such individual may either:

(1) Seek administrative review of the adverse determination. Such a request shall be in writing and should be addressed to the system manager who made the initial decision. In addition, the request for review shall state specifically why the initial decision should be reversed.

(2) Seek judicial relief in the district courts of the United States pursuant to paragraph (g)(1)(B) of the Act.

