The following systems of records are totally or partially exempt from subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4) (G), (H), and (I), and (f) of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552(a), and from §§ 0.554 through 0.557 of this subpart:

(a) System name. Radio Operator Records—FCC/FOB-1. Parts of this system of records are exempt pursuant to Section (k)(2) of the Act because they contain investigatory material compiled solely for law enforcement purposes.

(b) System name. Violators File (records kept on individuals who have been subjects of FCC field enforcement actions)—FCC/FOB-2. Parts of this system of records are EXEMPT because they are maintained as a protective service for individuals described in section 3056 of title 18, and because they are necessary for Commission employees to perform their duties, pursuant to sections (k) (1), (2), and (3) of the Act.

(c) System name. Attorney Misconduct Files—FCC/OGC-2. This system of records is exempt pursuant to section 3(k)(2) of the Act because it is maintained for law enforcement purposes.

(d) System name. Licensees or Unlicensed Persons Operating Radio Equipment Improperly—FCC. Parts of this system of records are exempt pursuant to section 3(k)(2) of the Act because they embody investigatory material compiled solely for law enforcement purposes.

(e) System name. Personnel Investigation Records—FCC/Central-6. Parts of these systems of records are exempt because they emobdy investigatory material pursuant to sections 3(k)(2) and 3(k)(5) of the Act as applicable.

(f) System name. Criminal Investigative Files—FCC/OIG-1. Compiled for the purpose of criminal investigations. This system of records is exempt pursuant to section (j)(2) of the Act because the records contain investigatory material compiled for criminal law enforcement purposes.

(g) System name. General Investigative Files—FCC/OIG-2. Compiled for law enforcement purposes. This system of records is exempt pursuant to section (k)(2) of the Act because the records contain investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes.

