(a) The agency will maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting closed to the public, except that in a meeting closed pursuant to paragraph (h) or (j) of § 0.603, the agency may maintain minutes in lieu of a transcript or recording. Such minutes shall fully and clearly describe all matters discussed and shall provide a full and accurate summary of any actions taken, and the reasons therefor, including a description of each of the views expressed on any item and the record of any roll call vote. All documents considered in connection with any item will be identified in the minutes.

(b) A public file of transcripts (or minutes) of closed meetings will be maintained in the Office of the Secretary. The transcript of a meeting will be placed in that file if, after the meeting, the responsible Bureau or Office Chief determines, in light of the discussion, that the meeting could have been open to the public or that the reason for withholding information concerning the matters discussed no longer pertains. Transcripts placed in the public file are available for inspection under § 0.460. Other transcripts, and separable portions thereof which do not contain information properly withheld under § 0.603, may be made available for inspection under § 0.461. When a transcript, or portion thereof, is made available for inspection under § 0.461, it will be placed in the public file. Copies of transcripts may be obtained from the duplicating contractor pursuant to § 0.465(a). There will be no search or transcription fee. Requests for inspection or copies of transcripts shall specify the date of the meeting, the name of the agenda and the agenda item number; this information will appear in the notice of the meeting. Pursuant to § 0.465(c)(3), the Commission will make copies of the transcript available directly, free of charge, if it serves the financial or regulatory interests of the United States.

(c) The Commission will maintain a copy of the transcript or minutes for a period of at least two years after the meeting, or until at least one year after conclusion of the proceeding to which the meeting relates, whichever occurs later.

(d) The Commissioner presiding at the meeting will prepare a statement setting out the time and place of the meeting, the names of persons other than Commission personnel who were present at the meeting, and the names of Commission personnel who participated in the discussion. These statements will be retained in a public file in the Minute and Rules Branch, Office of the Secretary.

