(a) Notice of all open and closed meetings will be given.

(b) The meeting notice will be submitted for publication in the Federal Register on or before the date on which the announcement is made. Copies will be available in the Press and News Media Division on the day the announcement is made. Copies will also be attached to “FCC Actions Alert”, which is mailed to certain individuals and groups who have demonstrated an interest in representing the public in Commission proceedings.

(c)(1) If the agency staff determines that a meeting should be open to the public, it will, at least one week prior to the meeting, announce in writing the time, place and subject matter of the meeting, that it is to be open to the public, and the name and phone number of the Chief, Press and News Media Division, who has been designated to respond to requests for information about the meeting.

(2) If the staff determines that a meeting should be closed to the public, it will refer the matter to the General Counsel, who will certify that there is (or is not) a legal basis for closing the meeting to the public. Following action by the General Counsel, the matter may be referred to the agency for a vote on the question of closing the meeting (See § 0.606).

(d)(1) If the question of closing a meeting is considered by the agency but no vote is taken, the agency will, at least one week prior to the meeting, announce in writing the time, place and subject matter of the meeting, that it is to be open to the public, and the name and phone number of the Chief, Press and News Media Division.

(2) If a vote is taken, the agency will, in the same announcement and within one day after the vote, make public the vote of each participating Commissioner.

(3) If the vote is to close the meeting, the agency will also, in that announcement, set out a full written explanation of its action, including the applicable provision(s) of § 0.603, and a list of persons expected to attend the meeting, including Commission personnel, together with their affiliations. The Commissioners, their assistants, the General Counsel, the Executive Director, the Chief, Press and News Media Division, and the Secretary are expected to attend all Commission meetings. The appropriate Bureau or Office Chief and Division Chief are expected to attend meetings which relate to their responsibilities (see subpart A of this part).

(4) If a meeting is closed, the agency may omit from the announcement information usually included, if and to the extent that it finds that disclosure would be likely to have any of the consequences listed in § 0.603.

(e) If the prompt and orderly conduct of agency business requires that a meeting be held less than one week after the announcement of the meeting, or before that announcement, the agency will issue the announcement at the earliest practicable time. In addition to other information, the announcement will contain the vote of each member of the agency who participated in the decision to give less than seven days notice, and the particular reason for that decision.

(f) If, after announcement of a meeting, the time or place of the meeting is changed or the meeting is cancelled, the agency will announce the change at the earliest practicable time.

(g) If the subject matter or the determination to open or close a meeting is changed, the agency will publicly announce the change and the vote of each member at the earliest practicable time. The announcement will contain a finding that agency business requires the change and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible.

