(a) For every meeting closed under § 0.603, the General Counsel will certify that there is a legal basis for closing the meeting to the public and will state each relevant provision of § 0.603. The staff of the agency will refer the matter to the General Counsel for certification before it is referred to the agency for a vote on closing the meeting. Certifications will be retained in a public file in the Office of the Secretary.

(b) The agency will vote on the question of closing a meeting.

(1) If a member of the agency requests that a vote be taken;

(2) If the staff recommends that a meeting be closed and one member of the agency requests that a vote be taken; or

(3) If a person whose interests may be directly affected by a meeting requests the agency to close the meeting for any of the reasons listed in § 0.603 (e), (f) or (g), or if any person requests that a closed meeting be opened, and a member of the agency requests that a vote be taken. (Such requests may be filed with the Secretary at any time prior to the meeting and should briefly state the reason(s) for opening or closing the meeting. To assure that they reach the Commission for consideration prior to the meeting, they should be submitted at the earliest practicable time and should be called specifically to the attention of the Secretary—in person or by telephone. It will be helpful if copies of the request are furnished to the members of the agency and the General Counsel. The filing of a request shall not stay the holding of a meeting.)

(c) A meeting will be closed to the public pursuant to § 0.603 only by vote of a majority of the entire membership of the agency. The vote of each participating Commissioner will be recorded. No Commissioner may vote by proxy.

(d) A separate vote will be taken before any meeting is closed to the public and before any information is withheld from the meeting notice. However, a single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings proposed to be closed to the public, and with respect to information concerning such series of meetings (a vote on each question, if both are presented), if each meeting involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no later than 30 days after the first meeting in the series.

(e) Less than seven days notice may be given only by majority vote of the entire membership of the agency.

(f) The subject matter or the determination to open or close a meeting will be changed only if a majority of the entire membership of the agency determines by recorded vote that agency business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible.

