(a) Step 1: Register for an FCC Registration Number (FRN). (See subpart W, §§ 1.8001 through 1.8004.)

(1) If you already have an FRN, go to Step 2.

(2) In order to process your electronic application, you must have an FRN. You may obtain an FRN either directly from the Commission Registration System (CORES) at http://www.fcc.gov/e-file/, or through IBFS as part of your filing process. If you need to know more about who needs an FRN, visit CORES at http://www.fcc.gov/e-file/.
              

(3) If you are a(n):

(i) Applicant,

(ii) Transferee and assignee,

(iii) Transferor and assignor,

(iv) Licensee/Authorization Holder, or

(v) Payer, you are required to have and use an FRN when filing applications and/or paying fees through IBFS.

(4) We use your FRN to give you secured access to IBFS and to pre-fill the application you file.

(b) Step 2: Register with IBFS.
              

(1) If you are already registered with IBFS, go to Step 3.

(2) In order to complete and file your electronic application, you must register in IBFS, located at http://www.fcc.gov/ibfs.
              

(3) You can register your account in:

(i) Your name,

(ii) Your company's name, or

(iii) Your client's name.

(4) IBFS will issue you an account number as part of the registration process. You will create your own password.

(5) If you forget your password, send an e-mail to the IBFS helpline at ibfsinfo@fcc.gov or contact the helpline at (202) 418-2222 for assistance.

(c) Step 3: Log into IBFS, select the application you want to file, provide the required FRN(s) and password(s) and fill out your application. You must completely fill out forms and provide all requested information as provided in parts 1, 25, 63 and 64 of this chapter.

(1) You must provide an address where you can receive mail delivery by the United States Postal Service. You are also encouraged to provide an e-mail address. This information is used to contact you regarding your application and to request additional documentation, if necessary.

(2) Reference to material on file. You must answer questions on application forms that call for specific technical data, or that require yes or no answers or other short answers. However, if documents or other lengthy showings are already on file with us and contain the required information, you may incorporate the information by reference, as long as:

(i) The referenced information is filed in IBFS or, if manually filed, the information is more than one “81/2 inch by 11 inch” page.

(ii) The referenced information is current and accurate in all material respects; and

(iii) The application states where we can find the referenced information as well as:

(A) The application file number, if the reference is to previously-filed applications

(B) The title of the proceeding, the docket number, and any legal citation, if the reference is to a docketed proceeding.

(d) Step 4: File your application. If you file your application successfully through IBFS, a confirmation screen will appear showing you the date and time of your filing and your submission ID. Print this verification for your records as proof of online filing.

(e) Step 5: Pay for your application.
              

(1) Most applications require that you pay a fee to us before we can begin processing your application. You can determine the amount of your fee in three ways:

(i) You can refer to § 1.1107,

(ii) You can refer to the International and Satellite Services fee guide located at http://www.fcc.gov/fees/appfees.html, or

(iii) You can run a draft Form 159 through IBFS, in association with a filed application, and the system will automatically enter your required fee on the form.

(2) A complete FCC Form 159 must accompany all fee payments. You must provide the FRN for both the applicant and the payer. You also must include your IBFS Submission ID number on your FCC Form 159 in the box labeled “FCC Code 2.” In addition, for applications for transfer of control or assignment of license, call signs involved in the transaction must be entered into the “FCC Code 1” box on the FCC Form 159. (This may require the use of multiple rows on the FCC Form 159 for a single application where more than one call sign is involved.)

(i) You may use a paper version of FCC Form 159, or

(ii) You can generate a pre-filled FCC Form 159 from IBFS using your IBFS Submission ID. For specific instructions on using IBFS to generate your FCC Form 159, go to the IBFS Web site (http://www.fcc.gov/ibfs) and click on the “Getting Started” button.

(3) You have 3 payment options:

(i) Pay by credit card (through IBFS or by regular mail),

(ii) Pay by check, bank draft or money order, or

(iii) Pay by wire transfer or other electronic payments.

(4) You have 14 calendar days from the date you file your application in IBFS to submit your fee payment to U.S. Bank. Your FCC Form 159 must be stamped “received” by U.S. Bank by the 14th day. If not, we will dismiss your application.

(5) If you send your Form 159 and payment to U.S. Bank in paper form, you should mail your completed Form 159 and payment to the address specified in § 1.1107 of the Commission's rules. If you file electronically, do not send copies of your application with your payment and Form 159.

(6) For more information on fee payments, refer to Payment Instructions found on the IBFS Internet site at http://www.fcc.gov/ibfs.
              

(7) Step 5 is not applicable if your application is fee exempt.

