(a) The provisions of this section apply to all final actions taken pursuant to delegated authority, including final actions taken by members of the Commission's staff on nonhearing matters. They do not apply to interlocutory actions of the Chief Administrative Law Judge in hearing proceedings, or to hearing designation orders issued under delegated authority. See §§ 0.351, 1.106(a) and 1.115(e).

(b) Any person desiring Commission consideration of a final action taken pursuant to delegated authority shall file either a petition for reconsideration or an application for review (but not both) within 30 days from the date of public notice of such action, as that date is defined in § 1.4(b) of these rules. The petition for reconsideration will be acted on by the designated authority or referred by such authority to the Commission: Provided, That a petition for reconsideration of an order designating a matter for hearing will in all cases be referred to the Commission. The application for review will in all cases be acted upon by the Commission.
                

(c) If in any matter one party files a petition for reconsideration and a second party files an application for review, the Commission will withhold action on the application for review until final action has been taken on the petition for reconsideration.

(d) Any person who has filed a petition for reconsideration may file an application for review within 30 days from the date of public notice of such action, as that date is defined in § 1.4(b) of these rules. If a petition for reconsideration has been filed, any person who has filed an application for review may: (1) Withdraw his application for review, or (2) substitute an amended application therefor.
                

