
                All other applications. We consider all other applications officially filed once you file the application in IBFS and applicable filing fees are received and approved by the FCC, unless the application is determined to be fee-exempt. We determine your official filing date based on one of the following situations:


                Application. A request for an earth or space station radio station license, an international cable landing license, or an international service authorization, or a request to amend a pending application or to modify or renew licenses or authorizations. The term also includes the other requests that may be filed in IBFS such as transfers of control and assignments of license applications, earth station registrations, and foreign carrier affiliation notifications.


                Authorizations. Generally, a written document or oral statement issued by us giving authority to operate or provide service.


                International Bureau Filing System. The International Bureau Filing System (IBFS) is a database, application filing system, and processing system for all International and Satellite services. IBFS supports electronic filing of many applications and related documents in the International Bureau, and provides public access to this information.


                International Services. All international services authorized under parts 1, 63 and 64 of this chapter.


                Official Filing Date.
              


                Satellite Space Station Applications (other than DBS and DARS) and Applications for Earth Stations to Access a Non-U.S. Satellite Not Currently Authorized to Provide the Proposed Service in the Proposed Frequencies in the United States. We consider a Satellite Space Station application (other than DBS and DARS) and an Application for an Earth Station to Access a Non-U.S. Satellite Not Currently Authorized to Provide the Proposed Service in the Proposed Frequencies in the United States officially filed the moment you file them through IBFS. The system tracks the date and time of filing (to the millisecond). For purposes of the queue discussed in § 25.158 of this chapter, we will base the order of the applications in the queue on the date and time the applications are filed, rather than the “Official Filing Date” as defined here.


                Satellite Services. All satellite services authorized under part 25 of this chapter.


                Submission ID. The Submission ID is the confirmation number you receive from IBFS once you have successfully filed your application. It is also the number we use to match your filing to your payment. Your IBFS Submission ID will always start with the letters “IB” and include the year in which you file as well as a sequential number, (e.g., IB2003000123).


                Us. In this subpart, “us” refers to the Commission.


                We. In this subpart, “we” refers to the Commission.


                You. In this subpart, “you” refers to applicants, licensees, your representatives, or other entities authorized to provide services.

