(a) Any person aggrieved by any action taken pursuant to delegated authority may file an application requesting review of that action by the Commission. Any person filing an application for review who has not previously participated in the proceeding shall include with his application a statement describing with particularity the manner in which he is aggrieved by the action taken and showing good reason why it was not possible for him to participate in the earlier stages of the proceeding. Any application for review which fails to make an adequate showing in this respect will be dismissed.

(b)(1) The application for review shall concisely and plainly state the questions presented for review with reference, where appropriate, to the findings of fact or conclusions of law.

(2) The application for review shall specify with particularity, from among the following, the factor(s) which warrant Commission consideration of the questions presented:

(i) The action taken pursuant to delegated authority is in conflict with statute, regulation, case precedent, or established Commission policy.

(ii) The action involves a question of law or policy which has not previously been resolved by the Commission.

(iii) The action involves application of a precedent or policy which should be overturned or revised.

(iv) An erroneous finding as to an important or material question of fact.

(v) Prejudicial procedural error.

(3) The application for review shall state with particularity the respects in which the action taken by the designated authority should be changed.

(4) The application for review shall state the form of relief sought and, subject to this requirement, may contain alternative requests.

(c) No application for review will be granted if it relies on questions of fact or law upon which the designated authority has been afforded no opportunity to pass.
                

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the application for review and any supplemental thereto shall be filed within 30 days of public notice of such action, as that date is defined in section 1.4(b). Opposition to the application shall be filed within 15 days after the application for review is filed. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, replies to oppositions shall be filed within 10 days after the opposition is filed and shall be limited to matters raised in the opposition.

(e)(1) Applications for review of interlocutory rulings made by the Chief Administrative Law Judge (see § 0.351) shall be deferred until the time when exceptions are filed unless the Chief Judge certifies the matter to the Commission for review. A matter shall be certified to the Commission only if the Chief Judge determines that it presents a new or novel question of law or policy and that the ruling is such that error would be likely to require remand should the appeal be deferred and raised as an exception. The request to certify the matter to the Commission shall be filed within 5 days after the ruling is made. The application for review shall be filed within 5 days after the order certifying the matter to the Commission is released or such ruling is made. Oppositions shall be filed within 5 days after the application is filed. Replies to oppositions shall be filed only if they are requested by the Commission. Replies (if allowed) shall be filed within 5 days after they are requested. A ruling certifying or not certifying a matter to the Commission is final: Provided, however, That the Commission may, on its own motion, dismiss the application for review on the ground that objections to the ruling should be deferred and raised as an exception.

(2) The failure to file an application for review of an interlocutory ruling made by the Chief Administrative Law Judge or the denial of such application by the Commission, shall not preclude any party entitled to file exceptions to the initial decision from requesting review of the ruling at the time when exceptions are filed. Such requests will be considered in the same manner as exceptions are considered.

(3) Applications for review of a hearing designation order issued under delegated authority shall be deferred until exceptions to the initial decision in the case are filed, unless the presiding Administrative Law Judge certifies such an application for review to the Commission. A matter shall be certified to the Commission only if the presiding Administrative Law Judge determines that the matter involves a controlling question of law as to which there is substantial ground for difference of opinion and that immediate consideration of the question would materially expedite the ultimate resolution of the litigation. A ruling refusing to certify a matter to the Commission is not appealable. In addition, the Commission may dismiss, without stating reasons, an application for review that has been certified, and direct that the objections to the hearing designation order be deferred and raised when exceptions in the initial decision in the case are filed. A request to certify a matter to the Commission shall be filed with the presiding Administrative Law Judge within 5 days after the designation order is released. Any application for review authorized by the Administrative Law Judge shall be filed within 5 days after the order certifying the matter to the Commission is released or such a ruling is made. Oppositions shall be filed within 5 days after the application for review is filed. Replies to oppositions shall be filed only if they are requested by the Commission. Replies (if allowed) shall be filed within 5 days after they are requested.

(4) Applications for review of final staff decisions issued on delegated authority in formal complaint proceedings on the Enforcement Bureau's Accelerated Docket (see, e.g., § 1.730) shall be filed within 15 days of public notice of the decision, as that date is defined in § 1.4(b). These applications for review oppositions and replies in Accelerated Docket proceedings shall be served on parties to the proceeding by hand or facsimile transmission.

(f) Applications for review, oppositions, and replies shall conform to the requirements of §§ 1.49, 1.51, and 1.52, and shall be submitted to the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. Except as provided below, applications for review and oppositions thereto shall not exceed 25 double-space typewritten pages. Applications for review of interlocutory actions in hearing proceedings (including designation orders) and oppositions thereto shall not exceed 5 double-spaced typewritten pages. When permitted (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section), reply pleadings shall not exceed 5 double-spaced typewritten pages. The application for review shall be served upon the parties to the proceeding. Oppositions to the application for review shall be served on the person seeking review and on parties to the proceeding. When permitted (see paragraph (e)(3) of this section), replies to the opposition(s) to the application for review shall be served on the person(s) opposing the application for review and on parties to the proceeding.

(g) The Commission may grant the application for review in whole or in part, or it may deny the application with or without specifying reasons therefor. A petition requesting reconsideration of a ruling which denies an application for review will be entertained only if one or more of the following circumstances is present:

(1) The petition relies on facts which related to events which have occurred or circumstances which have changed since the last opportunity to present such matters; or

(2) The petition relies on facts unknown to petitioner until after his last opportunity to present such matters which could not, through the exercise of ordinary diligence, have been learned prior to such opportunity.

(h)(1) If the Commission grants the application for review in whole or in part, it may, in its decision:
                

(i) Simultaneously reverse or modify the order from which review is sought;

(ii) Remand the matter to the designated authority for reconsideration in accordance with its instructions, and, if an evidentiary hearing has been held, the remand may be to the person(s) who conducted the hearing; or

(iii) Order such other proceedings, including briefs and oral argument, as may be necessary or appropriate.

(2) In the event the Commission orders further proceedings, it may stay the effect of the order from which review is sought. (See § 1.102.) Following the completion of such further proceedings the Commission may affirm, reverse or modify the order from which review is sought, or it may set aside the order and remand the matter to the designated authority for reconsideration in accordance with its instructions. If an evidentiary hearing has been held, the Commission may remand the matter to the person(s) who conducted the hearing for rehearing on such issues and in accordance with such instructions as may be appropriate.
                

(i) An order of the Commission which reverses or modifies the action taken pursuant to delegated authority is subject to the same provisions with respect to reconsideration as an original order of the Commission. In no event, however, shall a ruling which denies an application for review be considered a modification of the action taken pursuant to delegated authority.

(j) No evidence other than newly discovered evidence, evidence which has become available only since the original taking of evidence, or evidence which the Commission believes should have been taken in the original proceeding shall be taken on any rehearing ordered pursuant to the provisions of this section.

(k) The filing of an application for review shall be a condition precedent to judicial review of any action taken pursuant to delegated authority.

