(a) The Schedule of Charges established by §§ 1.1102 through 1.1109 of this subpart shall be reviewed by the Commission on October 1, 1999 and every two years thereafter, and adjustments made, if any, will be reflected in the next publication of Schedule of Charges.

(1) The fees will be adjusted by the Commission to reflect the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U) from the date of enactment of the authorizing legislation (December 19, 1989) to the date of adjustment, and every two years thereafter, to reflect the percentage change in the CPI-U in the period between the enactment date and the adjustment date.

(2) Adjustments based upon the percentage change in the CPI-U will be applied against the base fees as enacted or amended by Congress in the year the fee was enacted or amended.

(b) Increases or decreases in charges will apply to all categories of fees covered by this subpart. Individual fees will not be adjusted until the increase or decrease, as determined by the net change in the CPI-U since the date of enactment of the authorizing legislation, amounts to at least $5 in the case of fees under $100, or 5% or more in the case of fees of $100 or greater. All fees will be adjusted upward to the next $5 increment.

(c) Adjustments to fees made pursuant to these procedures will not be subject to notice and comment rulemakings, nor will these decisions be subject to petitions for reconsideration under § 1.429 of the rules. Requests for modifications will be limited to correction of arithmetical errors made during an adjustment cycle.

