(a) The fees established by this subpart may be waived or deferred in specific instances where good cause is shown and where waiver or deferral of the fee would promote the public interest.

(b) Requests for waivers or deferrals will only be considered when received from applicants acting in respect to their own applications. Requests for waivers or deferrals of entire classes of services will not be considered.

(c) Petitions for waivers, deferrals, fee determinations, reconsiderations and applications for review will be acted upon by the Managing Director with the concurrence of the General Counsel. All such filings within the scope of the fee rules shall be filed as a separate pleading and clearly marked to the attention of the Managing Director. Any such request that is not filed as a separate pleading will not be considered by the Commission. Requests for deferral of a fee payment for financial hardship must be accompanied by supporting documentation.

(1) Petitions and applications for review submitted with a fee must be submitted to the Commission's lock box bank at the address for the appropriate service set forth in §§ 1.1102 through 1.1107.

(2) If no fee payment is submitted, the request should be filed with the Commission's Secretary.

(d) Deferrals of fees will be granted for an established period of time not to exceed six months.

(e) Applicants seeking waivers must submit the request for waiver with the application or filing, required fee and FCC Form 159, or a request for deferral. A petition for waiver and/or deferral of payment must be submitted to the Office of the Managing Director as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Waiver requests that do not include these materials will be dismissed in accordance with § 1.1111 of this subpart. Submitted fees will be returned if a waiver is granted. The Commission will not be responsible for delays in acting upon these requests.

(f) Petitions for waiver of a fee based on financial hardship will be subject to the provisions of paragraph 1.1166(e).

