(a) All refunds will be issued to the payer named in the appropriate block of the FCC Form 159. The full amount of any fee submitted will be returned or refunded, as appropriate, under the authority granted at ยง 0.231.

(1) When no fee is required for the application or other filing. (see ยง 1.1111).

(2) When the fee processing staff or bureau/office determines that an insufficient fee has been submitted within 30 calendar days of receipt of the application or filing and the application or filing is dismissed.

(3) When the application is filed by an applicant who cannot fulfill a prescribed age requirement.

(4) When the Commission adopts new rules that nullify applications already accepted for filing, or new law or treaty would render useless a grant or other positive disposition of the application.

(5) When a waiver is granted in accordance with this subpart.
              

(6) When an application for new or modified facilities is not timely filed in accordance with the filing window as established by the Commission in a public notice specifying the earliest and latest dates for filing such applications.

(b) Comparative hearings are no longer required.

(c) Applicants in the Media Services for first-come, first-served construction permits will be entitled to a refund of the fee, if, within fifteen days of the issuance of a Public Notice, applicant indicates that there is a previously filed pending application for the same vacant channel, such applicant notifies the Commission that they no longer wish their application to remain on file behind the first applicant and any other applicants filed before his or her application, and the applicant specifically requests a refund of the fee paid and dismissal of his or her application.

(d) Applicants for space station licenses under the first-come, first served procedure set forth in part 25 of this title will be entitled to a refund of the fee if, before the Commission has placed the application on public notice, the applicant notifies the Commission that it no longer wishes to keep its application on file behind the licensee and any other applicants who filed their applications before its application, and specifically requests a refund of the fee and dismissal of its application.

