Payment of a regulatory fee, required under §§ 1.1152 through 1.1156, shall be filed in the following manner:

(a)(1) The amount of the regulatory fee payment that is due with any application for authorization shall be the multiple of the number of years in the entire term of the requested license or other authorization multiplied by the annual fee payment required in the Schedule of Regulatory Fees, effective at the time the application is filed. Except as set forth in § 1.1160, advance payments shall be final and shall not be readjusted during the term of the license or authorization, notwithstanding any subsequent increase or decrease in the annual amount of a fee required under the Schedule of Regulatory Fees.

(2) Failure to file the appropriate regulatory fee due with an application for authorization will result in the return of the accompanying application, including an application for which the Commission has assigned a specific filing deadline.

(b)(1) Payments of standard regulatory fees applicable to certain wireless radio, mass media, common carrier, cable and international services shall be filed in full on an annual basis at a time announced by the Commission or the Managing Director, pursuant to delegated authority, and published in the Federal Register.

(2) Large regulatory fees, as annually defined by the Commission, may be submitted in installment payments or in a single payment on a date certain as announced by the Commission or the Managing Director, pursuant to delegated authority, and published in the Federal Register.
              

(c) Standard regulatory fee payments, as well as any installment payment, must be filed with a FCC Form 159, FCC Remittance Advice, and a FCC Form 159C, Remittance Advice Continuation Sheet, if additional space is needed. Failure to submit a copy of FCC Form 159 with a standard regulatory fee payment, or an installment payment, will result in the return of the submission and a 25 percent penalty if the payment is resubmitted after the date the Commission establishes for the payment of standard regulatory fees and for any installment payment.

(1) Any late filed regulatory fee payment will be subject to the penalties set forth in section 1.1164.

(2) If one or more installment payments are untimely submitted or not submitted at all, the eligibility of the subject regulatee to submit installment payments may be cancelled.

(d) Any Commercial Mobile Radio Service (CMRS) licensee subject to payment of an annual regulatory fee shall retain for a period of two (2) years from the date on which the regulatory fee is paid, those business records which were used to calculate the amount of the regulatory fee.

