(a) For Fiscal Year 1995, the amounts assessed for regulatory fees are set forth in §§ 1.1152 through 1.1156.
              

(b) For Fiscal year 1996 and thereafter, the Schedule of Regulatory Fees, contained in §§ 1.1152 through 1.1156, may be adjusted annually by the Commission pursuant to section 9 of the Communications Act. 47 U.S.C. 159. Adjustments to the fees established for any category of regulatory fee payment shall include projected cost increases or decreases and an estimate of the volume of licensees or units upon which the regulatory fee is calculated.

(c) The fees assessed shall:

(1) Be derived by determining the full-time equivalent number of employees performing enforcement activities, policy and rulemaking activities, user information services, and international activities within the Wireline Competition Bureau, Media Bureau, International Bureau and other offices of the Commission, adjusted to take into account factors that are reasonably related to the benefits provided to the payor of the fee by the Commission's activities, including such factors as service coverage area, shared use versus exclusive use, and other factors that the Commission determines are necessary in the public interest;

(2) Be established at amounts that will result in collection, during each fiscal year, of an amount that can reasonably be expected to equal the amount appropriated for such fiscal year for the performance of the activities described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(d) The Commission shall by rule amend the Schedule of Regulatory Fees by proportionate increases or decreases that reflect, in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, changes in the amount appropriated for the performance of the activities described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for such fiscal year. Such proportionate increases or decreases shall be adjusted to reflect unexpected increases or decreases in the number of licensees or units subject to payment of such fees and result in collection of an aggregate amount of fees that will approximately equal the amount appropriated for the subject regulatory activities.

(e) The Commission shall, by rule, amend the Schedule of Regulatory Fees if the Commission determines that the Schedule requires amendment to comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. In making such amendments, the Commission shall add, delete or reclassify services in the Schedule to reflect additional deletions or changes in the nature of its services as a consequence of Commission rulemaking proceedings or changes in law.

(f) In making adjustments to regulatory fees, the Commission will round such fees to the nearest $5.00 in the case of fees under $1,000.00, or to the nearest $25.00 in the case of fees of $1,000.00 or more.

