(a) Grant of any application or an instrument of authorization or other filing for which a regulatory fee is required to accompany the application or filing, will be conditioned upon final payment of the current or delinquent regulatory fees. Final payment shall mean receipt by the U.S. Treasury of funds cleared by the financial institution on which the check, bank draft, money order, credit card (Visa, MasterCard, American Express, or Discover), wire or electronic payment is drawn.

(1) If, prior to a grant of an instrument of authorization, the Commission is notified that final payment of the regulatory fee has not been made, the application or filing:

(i) Will be dismissed and returned;

(ii) Shall lose its place in the processing line; and
              

(iii) Will not be treated as timely filed if resubmitted after the relevant filing deadline.

(2) If, subsequent to a grant of an instrument of authorization or other filing, the Commission is notified that final payment has not been made, the Commission will:

(i) Automatically rescind that instrument of authorization for failure to meet the condition imposed by this subsection;

(ii) Notify the grantee of this action; and

(iii) Treat as late filed any application resubmitted after the original deadline for filing the application.

(3) Upon receipt of a notification of rescission of the authorization, the grantee will immediately cease operations initiated pursuant to the authorization.

(b) In those instances where the Commission has granted a request for deferred payment of a regulatory fee, further processing of the application or filing or the grant of authority shall be conditioned upon final payment of the regulatory fee and any required penalties for late payment prescribed by the deferral decision. Failure to comply with the terms of the deferral decision shall result in the automatic dismissal of the submission or rescission of the Commission authorization. Further, the Commission shall:

(1) Notify the grantee that the authorization has been rescinded. Upon such notification, the grantee will immediately cease operations initiated pursuant to the authorization; and

(2) Treat as late filed any application resubmitted after the original deadline for filing the application.

(c)(1) Where an applicant is found to be delinquent in the payment of regulatory fees, the Commission will make a written request for the fee, together with any penalties that may be rendered under this subpart. Such request shall inform the regulatee that failure to pay may result in the Commission withholding action on any application or request filed by the applicant. The staff shall also inform the regulatee of the procedures for seeking Commission review of the staff's determination.

(2) If, after final determination that the fee is due or that the applicant is delinquent in the payment of fees and payment is not made in a timely manner, the staff will withhold action on the application or filing until payment or other satisfactory arrangement is made. If payment or satisfactory arrangement is not made within 30 days, the application will be dismissed.

