Any late payment or insufficient payment of a regulatory fee, not excused by bank error, shall subject the regulatee to a 25 percent penalty of the amount of the fee of installment payment which was not paid in a timely manner. A timely fee payment or installment payment is one received at the Commission's lockbox bank by the due date specified by the Commission or by the Managing Director. A payment will also be considered late filed if the payment instrument (check, money order, bank draft or credit card) is uncollectible.

(a) The Commission may, in its discretion, following one or more late filed installment payments, require a regulatee to pay the entire balance of its regulatory fee by a date certain, in addition to assessing a 25 percent penalty.

(b) In cases were a fee payment fails due to error by the payor's bank, as evidenced by an affidavit of an officer of the bank, the date of the original submission will be considered the date of filing.

(c) If a regulatory fee is paid in a timely manner, the regulatee will be notified of its deficiency. This notice will automatically assess a 25 percent penalty, subject the delinquent payor's pending applications to dismissal, and may require a delinquent payor to show cause why its existing instruments of authorization should not be subject to rescission.

(d)(1) Where a regulatee's new, renewal or reinstatement application is required to be filed with a regulatory fee (as is the case with wireless radio services), the application will be dismissed if the regulatory fee is not included with the application package. In the case of a renewal or reinstatement application, the application may not be refiled unless the appropriate regulatory fee plus the 25 percent penalty charge accompanies the refiled application.

(2) If the application that must be accompanied by a regulatory fee is a mutually exclusive application with a filing deadline, or any other application that must be filed by a date certain, the application will be dismissed if not accompanied by the proper regulatory fee and will be treated as late filed if resubmitted after the original date for filing application.

(e) Any pending or subsequently filed application submitted by a party will be dismissed if that party is determined to be delinquent in paying a standard regulatory fee or an installment payment. The application may be resubmitted only if accompanied by the required regulatory fee and by any assessed penalty payment.

(f) In instances where the Commission may revoke an existing instrument of authorization for failure to file a regulatory fee, the Commission will provide prior notice to the regulatee of such action and shall allow the licensee no less than 60 days to either pay the fee or show cause why the payment assessed is inapplicable or should otherwise be waived or deferred.

(1) An adjudicatory hearing will not be designated unless the response by the regulatee to the Order to Show Cause presents a substantial and material question of fact.

(2) Disposition of the proceeding shall be based upon written evidence only and the burden of proceeding with the introduction of evidence and the burden of proof shall be on the respondent regulatee.

(3) Unless the regulatee substantially prevails in the hearing, the Commission may assess costs for the conduct of the proceeding against the respondent regulatee. See 47 U.S.C. 402(b)(5).

(4) Any regulatee failing to submit a regulatory fee, following notice to the regulatee of failure to submit the required fee, is subject to collection of the fee, including interest thereon, any associated penalties, and the full cost of collection to the Federal government pursuant to section 3720A of the Internal Revenue Code, 31 U.S.C. 3717, and to the provisions of the Debt Collection Act, 31 U.S.C. 3717. See 47 CFR 1.1901 through 1.1952. The debt collection processes described above may proceed concurrently with any other sanction in this paragraph.

(5) An application or filing by a regulatee that is delinquent in its debt to the Commission is also subject to dismissal under 47 CFR 1.1910.

