(a) Challenges to determinations or an insufficient regulatory fee payment or delinquent fees should be made in writing. A challenge to a determination that a party is delinquent in paying a standard regulatory fee must be accompanied by suitable proof that the fee had been paid or waived (deferred from payment during the period in question), or by the required regulatory payment and any assessed penalty payment (see ยง 1.1164(c) of this subpart). Challenges submitted with a fee payment must be submitted to address stated on the invoice or billing statement. Challenges not accompanied by a fee payment should be filed with the Commission's Secretary and clearly marked to the attention of the Managing Director or emailed to ARINQUIRIES@fcc.gov.
              

(b) The filing of a petition for reconsideration or an application for review of a fee determination will not relieve licensees from the requirement that full and proper payment of the underlying fee payment be submitted, as required by the Commission's action, or delegated action, on a request for waiver, reduction or deferment. Petitions for reconsideration and applications for review submitted with a fee payment must be submitted to the same location as the original fee payment. Petitions for reconsideration and applications for review not accompanied by a fee payment should be filed with the Commission's Secretary and clearly marked to the attention of the Managing Director.

(1) Failure to submit the fee by the date required will result in the assessment of a 25 percent penalty.

(2) If the fee payment should fail while the Commission is considering the matter, the petition for reconsideration or application for review will be dismissed.

