(a)(1) This section pertains to each party filing a petition for review in any United States court of appeals of a Commission Order, pursuant to section 402(a) of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 402(a), and 28 U.S.C. 2342(l), that wishes to avail itself of procedures established for selection of a court in the case of multiple appeals, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 2112(a). Each such party shall, within ten days after the issuance of that order, file with the General Counsel in the Office of General Counsel, Room 8-A741, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20554, a copy of its petition for review as filed and date-stamped by the court of appeals within which it was filed. Such copies of petitions for review must be filed by 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time on the tenth day of the filing period. A stamp indicating the time and date received by the Office of General Counsel will constitute proof of filing. Upon receipt of any copies of petitions for review, the Commission shall follow the procedures established in section 28 U.S.C. 2112(a) to determine the court in which to file the record in that case.

(2) Computation of time of the ten-day period for filing copies of petitions for review of a Commission order shall be governed by Rule 26 of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure. The date of issuance of a Commission order for purposes of filing copies of petitions for review shall be the date of public notice as defined in ยง 1.4(b) of the Commission's Rules, 47 CFR 1.4(b).

(b) Copies of notices of appeals filed pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 402(b) shall be served upon the General Counsel.
                

