(a) Application forms. Operators in the Multichannel Video and Cable Television Services (MVCTS) and applicants and licensees the Cable Television Relay Service (CARS) shall use the following forms and associated schedules:

(1) FCC Form 320, Basic Signal Leakage Performance Report. FCC Form 320 is used by MVPDs to report compliance with the basic signal leakage performance criteria.

(2) FCC Form 321, Aeronautical Frequency Notification. FCC Form 321 is used by MVPDs to notify the Commission prior to operating channels in the aeronautical frequency bands.

(3) FCC Form 322, Cable Community Registration. FCC Form 322 is used by cable system operators to commence operation for each community unit.

(4) FCC Form 324, Operator, Address, and Operational Information Changes. FCC Form 324 is used by cable operators to notify the Commission of changes in administrative data about the operator and operational status changes.

(5) FCC Form 325, Cable Television System Report. FCC Form 325 is used by cable operators to report general information and signal and frequency distribution data.

(6) FCC Form 327, Application for Cable Television Relay Service Station License. FCC Form 327 and associated schedules is used to apply for initial authorizations, modifications to existing authorizations, amendments to pending applications, and renewals of station authorizations. FCC Form 327 is also used to apply for Commission consent to assignments of existing CARS authorizations and to apply for Commission consent to the transfer of control of entities holding CARS authorizations.

(b) Electronic filing. Six months after the Commission announces their availability for electronic filing, all applications and other filings using FCC Forms 320, 321, 322, 324, 325, and 327 and their respective associated schedules must be filed electronically in accordance with the electronic filing instructions provided by COALS.

(1) There will be two ways for parties to electronically file applications with the Commission: batch and interactive.

(i) Batch filing. Batch filing involves data transmission in a single action. Batch filers will follow a set Commission format for entering data. Batch filers will then send, via file transfer protocol, batches of data to the Commission for compiling. COALS will compile such filings overnight and respond the next business day with a return or dismissal of any defective filings. Thus, batch filers will not receive immediate correction from the system as they enter the information.

(ii) Interactive filing. Interactive filing involves data transmission with screen-by-screen prompting from the Commission's COALS system. Interactive filers will receive prompts from the system identifying data entries outside the acceptable ranges of data for the individual fields at the time the data entry is made.

(2) Attachments to applications must be uploaded along with the electronically filed application whenever possible.

(3) Any associated documents submitted with an application must be uploaded as attachments to the application whenever possible. The attachment should be uploaded via COALS in Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format (PDF) whenever possible.
              

(c) Manual filing. (1) Forms 320, 321, 322, 324, 325, and 327 may be filed manually.

(2) Manual filings must be submitted to the Commission at the appropriate address with the appropriate filing fee. The addresses for filing and the fee amounts for particular applications are listed in subpart G of this part, and in the appropriate fee filing guide for each service available from the Commission's Forms Distribution Center by calling 1-800-418-FORM (3676). The form may be downloaded from the Commission's Web site: http://www.fcc.gov.
              

(3) Manual filings requiring fees as set forth at subpart G, of this part must be filed in accordance with ยง 0.401(b) of this chapter.

(4) Manual filings that do not require fees must be addressed and sent to the Media Bureau, Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20554.

(5) FCC forms may be reproduced and the copies used in accordance with the provisions of ยง 0.409 of this chapter.

(d) Applications requiring prior coordination. Parties filing applications that require frequency coordination shall, prior to filing, complete all applicable frequency coordination requirements in ยง 78.36 of this chapter.

