For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:

(a) Application. A request on Form 327 for a station license as defined in Section 3(b) of the Communications Act, completed in accordance with ยง 78.15 and signed in accordance with ยง 78.16 of this chapter, or a similar request to amend a pending application or to modify or renew an authorization. The term also encompasses requests to assign rights granted by the authorization or to transfer control of entities holding authorizations.

(b) Authorization. A written instrument issued by the FCC conveying authority to operate, for a specified period, a station in the Cable Television Relay Service. In addition, this term includes authority conveyed by operation of rule upon filing notification of aeronautical frequency usage by MVPDs or registration statements by cable operators.

(c) Cable Operations And Licensing System (COALS). The consolidated database, application filing system, and processing system for Multichannel Video and Cable Television Services (MVCTS) and the Cable Television Relay Service (CARS). COALS supports electronic filing of all applications, notifications, registrations, reports, and related documents by applicants and licensees in the MVCTS and CARS, and provides public access to licensing information.

(d) Cable Television Relay Service (CARS). All services authorized under part 78 of this title.

(e) Filings. Any application, notification, registration statement, or report in plain text or, when as prescribed, on FCC Forms 320, 321, 322, 324, 325, or 327, whether filed in paper form or electronically.

(f) Multichannel Video and Cable Television Services (MVCTS). All services authorized or operated in accordance with part 76 of this title.

(g) Receipt date. The date an electronic or paper application is received at the appropriate location at the Commission or the lock box bank. Major amendments to pending applications as defined in ยง 78.109 of this chapter, will result in the assignment of a new receipt date.

(h) Signed. For manually filed applications only, an original hand-written signature. For electronically filed applications only, an electronic signature. An electronic signature shall consist of the name of the applicant transmitted electronically via COALS and entered on the filing as a signature.

