(a) General. Filings must contain all information requested on the applicable form and any additional information required by the rules in this title and any rules pertaining to the specific service for which the filing is made.

(b) Antenna locations. Applications for CARS stations and aeronautical frequency usage notifications must describe each transmitting antenna site or center of the cable system, respectively, by its geographical coordinates. Geographical coordinates must be specified in degrees, minutes, and seconds to the nearest tenth of a second of latitude and longitude. Submissions must provide such data using the NAD83 datum.

(c) Antenna structure registration. Owners of certain antenna structures must notify the Federal Aviation Administration and register with the Commission as required by Part 17 of this chapter. Applications proposing the use of one or more new or existing antenna structures must contain the FCC Antenna Registration Number(s) of each structure for which registration is required. If registration is not required, the applicant must provide information in its application sufficient for the Commission to verify this fact.

(d) Environmental concerns. Each applicant is required to indicate at the time its application is filed whether a Commission grant of the application may have a significant environmental effect, as defined by ยง 1.1307. If yes, an Environmental Assessment, required by ยง 1.1311, must be filed with the application and environmental review by the Commission must be completed prior to construction.

(e) International coordination. Channel assignments and usage under part 78 are subject to the applicable provisions and requirements of treaties and other international agreements between the United States government and the governments of Canada and Mexico.

(f) Taxpayer Identification Number (TINs). All filers are required to provide their Taxpayer Identification Numbers (TINS) (as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6109) to the Commission, pursuant to the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (DCIA). Under the DCIA, the FCC may use an applicant or licensee's TIN for purposes of collecting and reporting to the Department of the Treasury any delinquent amounts arising out of such person's relationship with the Government.

