For purposes of this part, the term—


                Auxiliary aids means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the Commission. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings, and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TTY/TDDs), interpreters, Computer-aided realtime transcription (CART), captioning, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.


                Commission means Federal Communications Commission.


                Complete complaint means a written statement, or a complaint in audio, Braille, electronic, and/or video format, that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the Commission's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the Commission of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. The signature of the complainant, or signature of someone authorized by the complainant to do so on his or her behalf, shall be provided on print complaints. Complaints in audio, Braille, electronic, and/or video formats shall contain an affirmative identity statement of the individual, which for this purpose shall be considered to be functionally equivalent to a complainant's signature. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.


                Facility means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, or other real or personal property.


                General Counsel means the General Counsel of the Federal Communications Commission.


                Individual with a disability means any individual who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. As used in this definition, the phrase:

(1) Physical or mental impairment includes, but is not limited to—
              

(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine;

(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities;

(iii) Diseases and conditions such as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments; cerebral palsy; epilepsy; muscular dystrophy; multiple sclerosis; cancer; heart disease; diabetes; mental retardation; emotional illness; and drug addiction and alcoholism.

(2) Major life activities include functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.

(3) Has a record of such an impairment means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.

(4) Is regarded as having an impairment means—

(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the Commission as constituting such a limitation;

(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or

(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the Commission as having such impairment.


                Managing Director means the individual delegated authority as described in 47 CFR 0.11.


                Programs or Activities mean any activity of the Commission permitted or required by its enabling statutes, including but not limited to any licensing or certification program, proceeding, investigation, hearing, meeting, board or committee.


                Qualified individual with a disability means—

(1) With respect to any Commission program or activity under which an individual is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with a disability who, with or without reasonable modification to rules, policies, or practices or the provision of auxiliary aids, meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in the program or activity and can achieve the purpose of the program or activity; or

(2) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with a disability who, with or without reasonable modification to rules, policies, or practices or the provision of auxiliary aids, meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; or

(3) The definition of that term as defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1630.2(m), which is made applicable to this part by § 1.1840.


                Section 504 means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Public Law 93-112, 87 Stat. 394, 29 U.S.C. 794, as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974, Public Law 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617, and the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, Public Law 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955, and the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1986, sec. 103(d), Public Law 99-506, 100 Stat. 1810. As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.


                Section 504 means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Public Law 93-112, 87 Stat. 394, 29 U.S.C. 794, as amended. As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.

