(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of disability in programs or activities conducted by the Commission.

(b) The Commission shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. 791.

(c) Complaints alleging violation of section 504 with respect to the Commission's programs and activities shall be addressed to the Managing Director and filed with the Office of the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Room TWB-204, Washington, DC 20554.

(d) Acceptance of complaint. (1) The Commission shall accept and investigate all complete complaints, as defined in § 1.1803 of this part, for which it has jurisdiction. All such complaints must be filed within one-hundred eighty (180) days of the alleged act of discrimination. The Commission may extend this time period for good cause.

(2) If the Commission receives a complaint that is not complete as defined in § 1.1803 of this part, the complainant will be notified within thirty (30) days of receipt of the incomplete complaint that additional information is needed. If the complainant fails to complete the complaint within thirty (30) days of receipt of this notice, the Commission shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.

(e) If the Commission receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.

(f) The Commission shall notify the United States Access Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4151-4157, is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities.
              

(g) Within one-hundred eighty (180) days of the receipt of a complete complaint, as defined in § 1.1803, for which it has jurisdiction, the Commission shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—

(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;

(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and

(3) A notice of the right to appeal.

(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within ninety (90) days of receipt from the Commission of the letter required by § 1.1870(g). The Commission may extend this time for good cause.

(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the Office of the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Room TWB-204, Washington, DC 20554.

(j) The Commission shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within sixty (60) days of the receipt of the appeal request. If the Commission determines that it needs additional information from the complainant, and requests such information, the Commission shall have sixty (60) days from the date it receives the additional information to make its determination on the appeal.

(k) The time limits cited in (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the General Counsel.

(l) The Commission may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.

