(a) Responsibilities of creditor agency. Upon completion of the procedures established under 5 U.S.C. 5514, the creditor agency must do the following:

(1) Must certify, in writing, that the employee owes the debt, the amount and basis of the debt, the date on which payment(s) is due, the date of the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, and that the creditor agency's regulations implementing 5 U.S.C. 5514 have been approved by OPM.

(2) If the collection must be made in installments, the creditor agency also must advise the Commission of the number of installments to be collected, the amount of each installment, and the commencement date of the first installment (if a date other than the next officially established pay period is required).

(3) Unless the employee has consented to the salary offset in writing or signed a statement acknowledging receipt of the required procedures, and the written consent or statement is forwarded to the Commission, the creditor agency also must advise the Commission of the action(s) taken under 5 U.S.C. 5514(b) and give the date(s) the action(s) was taken.

(4) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the creditor agency must submit a debt claim containing the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section and an installment agreement (or other instruction on the payment schedule), if applicable to the Commission.

(5) If the employee is in the process of separating, the creditor agency must submit its claim to the Commission for collection pursuant to § 1.1930. The Commission will certify the total amount of its collection and provide copies to the creditor agency and the employee as stated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the Commission is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or other similar payments, it must provide written notification to the agency responsible for making such payments that the debtor owes a debt (including the amount) and that there has been full compliance with the provisions of this section. However, the creditor agency must submit a properly certified claim to the agency responsible for making such payments before collection can be made.

(6) If the employee is already separated and all payments from the Commission have been paid, the creditor agency may request, unless otherwise prohibited, that money due and payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (5 CFR 831.1801 et seq.), or other similar funds, be administratively offset to collect the debt. (31 U.S.C. 3716 and 4 CFR 102.4)

(b) Responsibilities of the Commission—(1) Complete claim. When the Commission receives a properly certified debt claim from a creditor agency, deductions should be scheduled to begin prospectively at the next official established pay interval. The Commission will notify the employee that the Commission has received a certified debt claim from the creditor agency (including the amount) and written notice of the date deductions from salary will commence and of the amount of such deductions.

(2) Incomplete claim. When the Commission receives an incomplete debt claim from a creditor agency, the Commission will return the debt claim with a notice that procedures under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and this subpart must be provided, and a properly certified debt claim received, before action will be taken to collect from the employee's current pay account.

(3) Review. The Commission will not review the merits of the creditor agency's determination with respect to the amount or validity of the debt certified by the creditor agency.

(c) Employees who transfer from one paying agency to another. (1) If, after the creditor agency has submitted the debt claim to the Commission, the employee transfers to a position served by a different paying agency before the debt is collected in full, the Commission must certify the total amount of the collection made on the debt. One copy of the certification must be furnished to the employee, another to the creditor agency along with notice of employee's transfer. However, the creditor agency must submit a properly certified claim to the new paying agency before collection can be resumed.

(2) When an employee transfers to another paying agency, the creditor agency need not repeat the due process procedures described by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and this subpart to resume the collection. However, the creditor agency is responsible for reviewing the debt upon receiving the former paying agency's notice of the employee's transfer to make sure the collection is resumed by the new paying agency.

