(a)(1) An application (including a petition for reconsideration or any application for review of a fee determination) or request for authorization subject to the FCC Registration Number (FRN) requirement set forth in subpart W of this chapter will be examined to determine if the applicant has paid the appropriate application fee, appropriate regulatory fees, is delinquent in its debts owed the Commission, or is debarred from receiving Federal benefits (see, e.g., 31 CFR 285.13; 47 CFR part 1, subpart P).

(2) Fee payments, delinquent debt, and debarment will be examined based on the entity's taxpayer identifying number (TIN), supplied when the entity acquired or was assigned an FRN. See 47 CFR 1.8002(b)(1).

(b)(1) Applications by any entity found not to have paid the proper application or regulatory fee will be handled pursuant to the rules set forth in 47 CFR part 1, subpart G.

(2) Action will be withheld on applications, including on a petition for reconsideration or any application for review of a fee determination, or requests for authorization by any entity found to be delinquent in its debt to the Commission (see § 1.1901(i)), unless otherwise provided for in this regulation, e.g., 47 CFR 1.1928 (employee petition for a hearing). The entity will be informed that action will be withheld on the application until full payment or arrangement to pay any non-tax delinquent debt owed to the Commission is made and/or that the application may be dismissed. See the provisions of §§ 1.1108, 1.1109, 1.1116, and 1.1118. Any Commission action taken prior to the payment of delinquent non-tax debt owed to the Commission is contingent and subject to rescission. Failure to make payment on any delinquent debt is subject to collection of the debt, including interest thereon, any associated penalties, and the full cost of collection to the Federal government pursuant to the provisions of the Debt Collection Improvement Act, 31 U.S.C. 3717.

(3) If a delinquency has not been paid or the debtor has not made other satisfactory arrangements within 30 days of the date of the notice provided pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the application or request for authorization will be dismissed.

(i) The provisions of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section will not apply if the applicant has timely filed a challenge through an administrative appeal or a contested judicial proceeding either to the existence or amount of the non-tax delinquent debt owed the Commission.

(ii) The provisions of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section will not apply where more restrictive rules govern treatment of delinquent debtors, such as 47 CFR 1.2105(a)(2)(x) and (xi).

(c)(1) Applications for emergency or special temporary authority involving safety of life or property (including national security emergencies) or involving a brief transition period facilitating continuity of service to a substantial number of customers or end users, will not be subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. However, paragraphs (a) and (b) will be applied to permanent authorizations for these services.

(2) The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section will not apply to applications or requests for authorization to which 11 U.S.C. 525(a) is applicable.

