(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the Commission may contract with private collection contractors, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(f), to recover delinquent debts. In that regard, the Commission:

(1) Retains the authority to resolve disputes, compromise debts, suspend or terminate collection activity, and refer debts for litigation;

(2) Restricts the private collection contractor from offering, as an incentive for payment, the opportunity to pay the debt less the private collection contractor's fee unless the Commission has granted such authority prior to the offer;

(3) Specifically requires, as a term of its contract with the private collection contractor, that the private collection contractor is subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 to the extent specified in 5 U.S.C. 552a(m), and to applicable Federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to debt collection practices, including but not limited to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 U.S.C. 1692; and
                

(4) The private collection contractor is required to account for all amounts collected.

(b) Although the Commission will use government-wide debt collection contracts to obtain debt collection services provided by private collection contractors, the Commission may refer debts to private collection contractors pursuant to a contract between the Commission and the private collection contractor in those situations where the Commission is not required to transfer debt to the Secretary of the Treasury for debt collection.

(c) Agencies may fund private collection contractor in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(d), or as otherwise permitted by law.

(d) The Commission may enter into contracts for locating and recovering assets of the United States, such as unclaimed assets, but it will first establish procedures that are acceptable to Treasury before entering into contracts to recover assets of the United States held by a state government or a financial institution.

(e) The Commission may enter into contracts for debtor asset and income search reports. In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3718(d), such contracts may provide that the fee a contractor charges the Commission for such services may be payable from the amounts recovered, unless otherwise prohibited by statute. In that regard, fees for those services will be added to the amount collected and are part of the administrative collection costs passed on to the debtor. See ยง 1.1940.

