For purposes of this subpart:

(a) Appropriate legal authorization. The term appropriate legal authorization means:

(1) A court order signed by a judge or magistrate authorizing or approving interception of wire or electronic communications; or

(2) Other authorization, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 2518(7), or any other relevant federal or state statute.

(b) Appropriate carrier authorization. The term appropriate carrier authorization means the policies and procedures adopted by telecommunications carriers to supervise and control officers and employees authorized to assist law enforcement in conducting any interception of communications or access to call-identifying information.

(c) Appropriate authorization. The term appropriate authorization means both appropriate legal authorization and appropriate carrier authorization.

(d) LEA. The term LEA means law enforcement agency; e.g., the Federal Bureau of Investigation or a local police department.

(e) Telecommunications carrier. The term telecommunications carrier includes:

(1) A person or entity engaged in the transmission or switching of wire or electronic communications as a common carrier for hire;

(2) A person or entity engaged in providing commercial mobile service (as defined in sec. 332(d) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 332(d))); or

(3) A person or entity that the Commission has found is engaged in providing wire or electronic communication switching or transmission service such that the service is a replacement for a substantial portion of the local telephone exchange service and that it is in the public interest to deem such a person or entity to be a telecommunications carrier for purposes of CALEA.

