(a) In order to be eligible for any new, modified, and/or renewed instrument of authorization from the Commission, including but not limited to, authorizations issued pursuant to sections 214, 301, 302, 303(1), 308, 310(d), 318, 319, 325(b), 351, 361(b), 362(b), 381, and 385 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, by whatever name that instrument may be designated, all applicants shall certify that neither the applicant nor any party to the application is subject to a denial of Federal benefits that includes FCC benefits pursuant to section 5301 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988. 21 U.S.C. 862. If a section 5301 certification has been incorporated into the FCC application form being filed, the applicant need not submit a separate certification. If a section 5301 certification has not been incorporated into the FCC application form being filed, the applicant shall be deemed to have certified by signing the application, unless an exhibit is included stating that the signature does not constitute such a certification and explaining why the applicant is unable to certify. If no FCC application form is involved, the applicant must attach a certification to its written application. If the applicant is unable to so certify, the applicant shall be ineligible for the authorization for which it applied, and will have 90 days from the filing of the application to comply with this rule. If a section 5301 certification has been incorporated into the FCC application form, failure to respond to the question concerning certification shall result in dismissal of the application pursuant to the relevant processing rules.

(b) A party to the application, as used in paragraph (a) of this section shall include:

(1) If the applicant is an individual, that individual;

(2) If the applicant is a corporation or unincorporated association, all officers, directors, or persons holding 5% or more of the outstanding stock or shares (voting and/or non-voting) of the applicant; and

(3) If the applicant is a partnership, all non-limited partners and any limited partners holding a 5% or more interest in the partnership.

(c) The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are not applicable to the Amateur Radio Service, the Citizens Band Radio Service, the Radio Control Radio Service, to users in the Public Mobile Services and the Private Radio Services that are not individually licensed by the Commission, or to Federal, State or local governmental entities or subdivisions thereof.
              

(d) The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are applicable to spectrum lessees (see ยง 1.9003 of subpart X of this part) engaged in spectrum manager leasing arrangements and de facto transfer leasing arrangements pursuant to the rules set forth in subpart X of this part.

