(a) A telecommunications carrier shall maintain a secure and accurate record of each interception of communications or access to call-identifying information, made with or without appropriate authorization, in the form of single certification.

(1) This certification must include, at a minimum, the following information:

(i) The telephone number(s) and/or circuit identification numbers involved;

(ii) The start date and time that the carrier enables the interception of communications or access to call identifying information;

(iii) The identity of the law enforcement officer presenting the authorization;

(iv) The name of the person signing the appropriate legal authorization;
                                    

(v) The type of interception of communications or access to call-identifying information (e.g., pen register, trap and trace, Title III, FISA); and

(vi) The name of the telecommunications carriers' personnel who is responsible for overseeing the interception of communication or access to call-identifying information and who is acting in accordance with the carriers' policies established under ยง 1.20003.

(2) This certification must be signed by the individual who is responsible for overseeing the interception of communications or access to call-identifying information and who is acting in accordance with the telecommunications carrier's policies established under ยง 1.20003. This individual will, by his/her signature, certify that the record is complete and accurate.

(3) This certification must be compiled either contemporaneously with, or within a reasonable period of time after the initiation of the interception of the communications or access to call-identifying information.

(4) A telecommunications carrier may satisfy the obligations of paragraph (a) of this section by requiring the individual who is responsible for overseeing the interception of communication or access to call-identifying information and who is acting in accordance with the carriers' policies established under ยง 1.20003 to sign the certification and append the appropriate legal authorization and any extensions that have been granted. This form of certification must at a minimum include all of the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section.

(b) A telecommunications carrier shall maintain the secure and accurate records set forth in paragraph (a) of this section for a reasonable period of time as determined by the carrier.

(c) It is the telecommunications carrier's responsibility to ensure its records are complete and accurate.

(d) Violation of this rule is subject to the penalties of ยง 1.20008.

