(a) A designated entity must seek Commission approval for all reportable eligibility events. A reportable eligibility event is:

(1) Any spectrum lease (as defined in § 1.9003) or resale arrangement (including wholesale agreements) with one entity or on a cumulative basis that might cause a licensee to lose eligibility for installment payments, a set-aside license, or a bidding credit (or for a particular level of bidding credit) under § 1.2110 and applicable service-specific rules.

(2) Any other event that would lead to a change in the eligibility of a licensee for designated entity benefits.

(b) Documents listed on and filed with application. A designated entity filing an application pursuant to this section must—

(1) List and summarize on the application all agreements and arrangements (including proposed agreements and arrangements) that give rise to or otherwise relate to a reportable eligibility event. In addition to a summary of each agreement or arrangement, this list must include the parties (including each party's affiliates, its controlling interests, the affiliates of its controlling interests, its spectrum lessees, and its spectrum resellers and wholesalers) to each agreement or arrangement, as well as the dates on which the parties entered into each agreement or arrangement.

(2) File with the application a copy of each agreement and arrangement listed pursuant to this paragraph.

(3) Maintain at its facilities or with its designated agents, for the term of the license, the lists, summaries, dates, and copies of agreements and arrangements required to be provided to the Commission pursuant to this section.

(c) Application fees. The application reporting the eligibility event will be treated as a transfer of control for purposes of determining the applicable application fees as set forth in § 1.1102.

(d) Streamlined approval procedures. (1) The eligibility event application will be placed on public notice once the application is sufficiently complete and accepted for filing (see § 1.933).

(2) Petitions to deny filed in accordance with section 309(d) of the Communications Act must comply with the provisions of § 1.939, except that such petitions must be filed no later than 14 days following the date of the Public Notice listing the application as accepted for filing.

(3) No later than 21 days following the date of the Public Notice listing an application as accepted for filing, the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau (Bureau) will grant the application, deny the application, or remove the application from streamlined processing for further review.

(4) Grant of the application will be reflected in a Public Notice (see § 1.933(a)(2)) promptly issued after the grant.

(5) If the Bureau determines to remove an application from streamlined processing, it will issue a Public Notice indicating that the application has been removed from streamlined processing. Within 90 days of that Public Notice, the Bureau will either take action upon the application or provide public notice that an additional 90-day period for review is needed.

(e) Public notice of application. Applications under this subpart will be placed on an informational public notice on a weekly basis (see § 1.933(a)).

(f) Contents of the application. The application must contain all information requested on the applicable form, any additional information and certifications required by the rules in this chapter, and any rules pertaining to the specific service for which the application is filed.

(g) The designated entity is required to update any change in a relationship that gave rise to a reportable eligibility event.

