(a) Definition of Applicant. For purposes of this paragraph, the term “applicant” shall include any applicant, each party capable of controlling the applicant, and each party that may be controlled by the applicant or by a party capable of controlling the applicant.

(b) Certain Communications Prohibited. After the deadline for submitting applications to participate, an applicant is prohibited from cooperating or collaborating with any other applicant with respect to its own, or one another's, or any other competing applicant's bids or bidding strategies, and is prohibited from communicating with any other applicant in any manner the substance of its own, or one another's, or any other competing applicant's bids or bidding strategies, until after the post-auction deadline for winning bidders to submit applications for support, unless such applicants are members of a joint bidding arrangement identified on the application pursuant to § 1.21001(b)(4).

(c) Duty To Report Potentially Prohibited Communications. An applicant that makes or receives communications that may be prohibited pursuant to this paragraph shall report such communications to the Commission staff immediately, and in any case no later than 5 business days after the communication occurs. An applicant's obligation to make such a report continues until the report has been made.

(d) Procedures for Reporting Potentially Prohibited Communications. Particular procedures for parties to report communications that may be prohibited under this rule may be established by public notice. If no such procedures are established by public notice, the party making the report shall do so in writing to the Chief of the Auctions and Spectrum Access Division by the most expeditious means available, including electronic transmission such as email.

