(a) Public Notice of the Application Process. The dates and procedures for submitting applications to participate in competitive bidding pursuant to this subpart shall be announced by public notice.

(b) Application Contents. An applicant to participate in competitive bidding pursuant to this subpart shall provide the following information in an acceptable form:

(1) The identity of the applicant, i.e., the party that seeks support, including any required information regarding parties that have an ownership or other interest in the applicant;

(2) The identities of up to three individuals authorized to make or withdraw a bid on behalf of the applicant;

(3) The identities of all real parties in interest to any agreements relating to the participation of the applicant in the competitive bidding;

(4) Certification that the application discloses all real parties in interest to any agreements involving the applicant's participation in the competitive bidding;

(5) Certification that the applicant and all applicable parties have complied with and will continue to comply with ยง 1.21002;

(6) Certification that the applicant is in compliance with all statutory and regulatory requirements for receiving the universal service support that the applicant seeks;

(7) Certification that the applicant will make any payment that may be required pursuant to ยง 1.21004;

(8) Certification that the individual submitting the application is authorized to do so on behalf of the applicant; and

(9) Such additional information as may be required.

(c) Financial Requirements for Participation. As a prerequisite to participating in competitive bidding, an applicant may be required to post a bond or place funds on deposit with the Commission in an amount based on the default payment that may be required pursuant to ยง 1.21004. The details of and deadline for posting such a bond or making such a deposit will be announced by public notice. No interest will be paid on any funds placed on deposit.

(d) Application Processing. (1) Any timely submitted application will be reviewed by Commission staff for completeness and compliance with the Commission's rules. No untimely applications shall be reviewed or considered.

(2) An applicant will not be permitted to participate in competitive bidding if the application does not identify the applicant as required by the public notice announcing application procedures or does not include all required certifications, as of the deadline for submitting applications.

(3) An applicant will not be permitted to participate in competitive bidding if the applicant has not provided any bond or deposit of funds required pursuant to ยง 1.21001(c), as of the applicable deadline.

(4) An applicant may not make major modifications to its application after the deadline for submitting the application. An applicant will not be permitted to participate in competitive bidding if Commission staff determines that the application requires major modifications to be made after that deadline. Major modifications include, but are not limited to, any changes in the ownership of the applicant that constitute an assignment or transfer of control, or any changes in the identity of the applicant, or any changes in the required certifications.

(5) An applicant may be permitted to make minor modifications to its application after the deadline for submitting applications. Minor modifications may be subject to a deadline specified by public notice. Minor modifications include correcting typographical errors and supplying non-material information that was inadvertently omitted or was not available at the time the application was submitted.

(6) After receipt and review of the applications, an applicant that will be permitted participate in competitive bidding shall be identified in a public notice.

