(a) A motion to enlarge, change or delete the issues may be filed by any party to a hearing. Except as provided for in paragraph (b) of this section, such motions must be filed within 15 days after the full text or a summary of the order designating the case for hearing has been published in the Federal Register.
                

(b)(1) In comparative broadcast proceedings involving applicants for only new facilities, such motions shall be filed within 30 days of the release of the designation order, except that persons not named as parties to the proceeding in the designation order may file such motions with their petitions to intervene up to 30 days after publication of the full text or a summary of the designation order in the Federal Register. (See ยง 1.223 of this part).

(2) Any person desiring to file a motion to modify the issues after the expiration of periods specified in paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) of this section shall set forth the reason why it was not possible to file the motion within the prescribed period. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the motion will be granted only if good cause is shown for the delay in filing. Motions for modifications of issues which are based on new facts or newly discovered facts shall be filed within 15 days after such facts are discovered by the moving party.

(c) In the absence of good cause for late filing of a motion to modify the issues, the motion to enlarge will be considered fully on its merits if (and only if) initial examination of the motion demonstrates that it raises a question of probable decisional significance and such substantial public interest importance as to warrant consideration in spite of its untimely filing.

(d) Such motions, opposition thereto, and replies to oppositions shall contain specific allegations of fact sufficient to support the action requested. Such allegations of fact, except for those of which official notice may be taken, shall be supported by affidavits of a person or persons having personal knowledge thereof. The failure to file an opposition or a reply will not necessarily be construed as an admission of any fact or argument contained in a pleading.

(e) In comparative broadcast proceedings involving applicants for only new facilities, in addition to the showing with respect to the requested issue modification described in paragraph (d) of this section, the party requesting the enlargement of issues against an applicant in the proceeding shall identify those documents the moving party wishes to have produced and any other discovery procedures the moving party wishes to employ in the event the requested issue is added to the proceeding.

(1) In the event the motion to enlarge issues is granted, the Commission or delegated authority acting on the motion will also rule on the additional discovery requests, and, if granted, such additional discovery will be scheduled to be completed within 30 days of the action on the motion.

(2) The moving party may file supplemental discovery requests on the basis of information provided in responsive pleadings or discovered as a result of initial discovery on the enlarged issue. The grant or denial of any such supplemental requests and the timing of the completion of such supplemental discovery are subject to the discretion of the presiding judge.

(3) The 30-day time limit for completion of discovery on enlarged issues shall not apply where the persons subject to such additional discovery are not parties to the proceeding. In such case, additional time will be required to afford such persons adequate notice of the discovery procedures being employed.

(f) In any case in which the presiding judge or the Commission grants a motion to enlarge the issues to inquire into allegations that an applicant made misrepresentations to the Commission or engaged in other misconduct during the application process, the enlarged issues include notice that, after hearings on the enlarged issue and upon a finding that the alleged misconduct occurred and warrants such penalty, in addition to or in lieu of denying the application, the applicant may be liable for a forfeiture of up to the maximum statutory amount. See 47 U.S.C. 503(b)(2)(A).

