(a) A motion to proceed in forma pauperis may be filed by an individual, a corporation, and unincorporated entity, an association or other similar group, if the moving party is either of the following:

(1) A respondent in a revocation proceeding, or a renewal applicant, who cannot carry on his livelihood without the radio license at stake in the proceeding; or

(2) An intervenor in a hearing proceeding who is in a position to introduce testimony which is of probable decisional significance, on a matter of substantial public interest importance, which cannot, or apparently will not, be introduced by other parties to the proceeding, and who is not seeking personal financial gain.

(b) In the case of a licensee, the motion to proceed in forma pauperis shall contain specific allegations of fact sufficient to show that the moving party is eligible under paragraph (a) of this section and that he cannot, because of his poverty, pay the expenses of litigation and still be able to provide himself and his dependents with the necessities of life. Such allegations of fact shall be supported by affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof. The information submitted shall detail the income and assets of the individual and his financial obligations and responsibilities, and shall contain an estimate of the cost of participation in the proceeding. Personal financial information may be submitted to the presiding officer in confidence.

(c)(1) In the case of an individual intervenor, the motion to proceed in forma pauperis shall contain specific allegations of fact sufficient to show that he is eligible under paragraph (a) of this section and that he has dedicated financial resources to sustain his participation which are reasonable in light of his personal resources and other demands upon them but are inadequate for effective participation in the proceeding. Such allegations of fact shall be supported by affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof. The information submitted shall detail the income and assets of the individual and his immediate family and his financial obligations and responsibilities, and shall contain an estimate of the cost of participation. Personal financial information may be submitted to the presiding officer in confidence.

(2) In the case of an intervening group, the motion to proceed in forma pauperis shall contain specific allegations of fact sufficient to show that the moving party is eligible under paragraph (a) of this section and that it cannot pay the expenses of litigation and still be able to carry out the activities and purposes for which it was organized. Such allegations of fact shall be supported by affidavit of the President and Treasurer of the group, and/or by other persons having personal knowledge thereof. The information submitted shall include a copy of the corporate charter or other documents that describe the activities and purposes of the organization; a current balance sheet and profit and loss statement; facts showing, under all the circumstances, that it would not be reasonable to expect added resources of individuals composing the group to be pooled to meet the expenses of participating in the proceeding; and an estimate of the cost of participation. Personal financial information pertaining to members of the group may be submitted to the presiding officer in confidence.

(d) If the motion is granted, the presiding officer may direct that a free copy of the transcript of testimony be made available to the moving party and may relax the rules of procedure in any manner which will ease his financial burden, is fair to other parties to the proceeding, and does not involve the payment of appropriated funds to a party.

