(a) In the event that a presiding officer deems himself disqualified and desires to withdraw from the case, he shall notify the Commission of his withdrawal at least 7 days prior to the date set for hearing.

(b) Any party may request the presiding officer to withdraw on the grounds of personal bias or other disqualification.

(1) The person seeking disqualification shall file with the presiding officer an affidavit setting forth in detail the facts alleged to constitute grounds for disqualification. Such affidavit shall be filed not later than 5 days before the commencement of the hearing unless, for good cause shown, additional time is necessary.

(2) The presiding officer may file a response to the affidavit; and if he believes himself not disqualified, shall so rule and proceed with the hearing.

(3) The person seeking disqualification may appeal a ruling of disqualification, and, in that event, shall do so at the time the ruling is made. Unless an appeal of the ruling is filed at this time, the right to request withdrawal of the presiding officer shall be deemed waived.

(4) If an appeal of the ruling is filed, the presiding officer shall certify the question, together with the affidavit and any response filed in connection therewith, to the Commission. The hearing shall be suspended pending a ruling on the question by the Commission.

(5) The Commission may rule on the question without hearing, or it may require testimony or argument on the issues raised.

(6) The affidavit, response, testimony or argument thereon, and the Commission's decision shall be part of the record in the case.

