(a) Where the presiding officer is available to the Commission, and where the Commission finds upon the record that due and timely execution of its functions imperatively and unavoidably so requires, the Commission may direct that the record in a pending proceeding be certified to it for initial or final decision. Unless the Commission finds that due and timely execution of its functions imperatively and unavoidably requires that no recommended decision be issued, the presiding officer will prepare and file a recommended decision, which will be released with the Commission's initial or final decision.

(b) Where the presiding officer becomes unavailable to the Commission after the taking of testimony has been concluded, the Commission may direct that the record in a pending proceeding be certified to it for initial or final decision. In that event, the record shall be certified to the Commission by the Chief Administrative Law Judge.

(c)(1) Where the presiding officer becomes unavailable to the Commission after the taking of evidence has commenced but before it has been concluded, the Commission may order a rehearing before another presiding officer designated in accordance with ยง 1.241.

(2) Upon a finding that due and timely execution of its functions imperatively and unavoidably so requires, the Commission may (as an alternative) order that the hearing be continued by another presiding officer designated in accordance with ยง 1.241 or by the Commission itself. In that event, the officer continuing the hearing shall, upon completion of the hearing, certify the proceeding to the Commission for an initial or final decision. Unless the Commission finds upon the record that due and timely execution of its functions imperatively and unavoidably requires that no recommended decision be issued, the officer continuing the hearing shall prepare and file a recommended decision to be released with the Commission's initial or final decision. If all the parties expressly consent, and if the Commission does not order otherwise, the officer continuing the hearing may prepare an initial decision.

