(a) The consolidated supporting brief and exceptions to the initial decision (see ยง 1.276(a)(2)), including rulings upon motions or objections, shall point out with particularity alleged material errors in the decision or ruling and shall contain specific references to the page or pages of the transcript of hearing, exhibit or order if any on which the exception is based. Any objection not saved by exception filed pursuant to this section is waived.

(b) Within the period of time allowed in ยง 1.276(a) for the filing of exceptions, any party may file a brief in support of an initial decision, in whole or in part, which may contain exceptions and which shall be similar in form to the brief in support of exceptions (see ยง 1.276(a)(2)).

(c) Except by special permission, the consolidated brief and exceptions will not be accepted if the exceptions and argument exceed 25 double-spaced typewritten pages in length. (The table of contents and table of citations are not counted in the 25 page limit; however, all other contents of and attachments to the brief are counted.) Within 10 days, or such other time as the Commission or delegated authority may specify, after the time for filing exceptions has expired, any other party may file a reply brief, which shall not exceed 25 double spaced typewritten pages and shall contain a table of contents and a table of citations. If exceptions have been filed, any party may request oral argument not later than five days after the time for filing replies to the exceptions has expired. The Commission or delegated authority, in its discretion, will grant oral argument by order only in cases where such oral presentations will assist in the resolution of the issues presented. Within five days after release of an order designating an initial decision for oral argument, as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any party who wishes to participate in oral argument shall file a written notice of intention to appear and participate in oral argument. Failure to file a written notice shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to participate.

(d) Each order scheduling a case for oral argument will contain the allotment of time for each party for oral argument before the Commission. The Commission will grant, in its discretion, upon good cause shown, an extension of such time upon petition by a party, which petition must be filed within 5 days after issuance of said order for oral argument.

(e) Within 10 days after a transcript of oral argument has been filed in the Office of the Secretary, any party who participated in the oral argument may file with the Commission a motion requesting correction of the transcript, which motion shall be accompanied by proof of service thereof upon all other parties who participated in the oral argument. Within 5 days after the filing of such a motion, other parties may file a pleading in support of or in opposition to such motion. Thereafter, the officer who presided at the oral argument shall, by order, specify the corrections to be made in the transcript, and a copy of the order shall be served upon all parties to the proceeding. The officer who presided at the oral argument may, on his own initiative, by order, specify corrections to be made in the transcript on 5 days notice of the proposed corrections to all parties who participated in the oral argument.

(f) Any commissioner who is not present at oral argument and who is otherwise authorized to participate in a final decision may participate in making that decision after reading the transcript of oral argument.

