(a) Service of interrogatories; notice. A party to the hearing proceeding desiring to take the deposition of any person upon written interrogatories shall serve the interrogatories upon every other party and shall give a minimum of 35 days notice in writing to every other party and to the person to be examined. An original and three copies of the interrogatories and the notice (and of all related pleadings) shall be filed with the Secretary of the Commission. A copy of the interrogatories and the notice (and of all related pleadings) shall be served on the presiding officer. The notice shall contain the following information:

(1) The name and address of each person to be examined, if known, and if the name is not known, a general description sufficient to identify him or the particular class or group to which he belongs.

(2) The time and place for taking the deposition of each person to be examined, and the name or descriptive title and address of the officer before whom the deposition is to be taken.

(3) The matters upon which each person will be examined. See ยง 1.319.

(b) Additional interrogatories. Within 7 days after the filing and service of the original interrogatories, any other party to the proceeding may, in the same manner, file and serve additional interrogatories to be asked of the same witness at the same time and place, with notice to the witness of any additional matters upon which he will be examined.

(c) Cross interrogatories. Within 14 days after the filing and service of the original interrogatories, any party to the proceeding may, in the same manner, file and serve cross interrogatories, which shall be limited to matters raised in the original or in the additional interrogatories.

(d) Responsive pleadings. (1) Within 21 days after service of the original interrogatories, any party to the proceeding may move to limit or suppress any original, additional or cross interrogatory, and the person to be examined may file a motion opposing the taking of depositions. See ยง 1.319(a).

(2) Within 28 days after service of the original interrogatories, a response to a motion to limit or suppress any interrogatory or to a motion opposing the taking of depositions may be filed by any party to the proceeding.

(3) Additional pleadings should not be filed and will not be considered.

(e) Protective order. On a motion to limit or suppress or an opposition motion filed under paragraph (d) of this section, or on his own motion, the presiding officer may issue a protective order. See ยง 1.313. A protective order issued by the presiding officer on his own motion may be issued at any time prior to the date specified in the notice for the taking of depositions.

(f) Authority to take depositions. (1) If an opposition motion is not filed within 21 days after service of the notice to take depositions, and if the presiding officer does not on his own motion issue a protective order prior to the time specified in the notice for the taking of depositions, the depositions described in the notice may be taken. An order for the taking of depositions is not required.

(2) If an opposition motion is filed, the depositions described in the notice shall not be taken until the presiding officer has acted on that motion. If the presiding officer authorizes the taking of depositions, he may specify a time, place or officer for taking them different from that specified in the notice to take depositions.

(3) If the presiding officer issues a protective order, the depositions described in the notice may be taken (if at all) only in accordance with the provisions of that order.
                

