(a) Objections to be made by motion prior to the taking of depositions. If there is objection to the substance of any interrogatory or to examination on any matter clearly covered by the notice to take depositions, the objection shall be made in a motion opposing the taking of depositions or in a motion to limit or suppress the interrogatory as provided in §§ 1.315(b) and 1.316(d) and shall not be made at the taking of the deposition.

(b) Objections to be made at the taking of depositions. Errors and irregularities occurring at the oral examination in the manner of taking the deposition, in the form of the questions or answers, in the oath or affirmation, or in the conduct of parties, and errors of any kind which might be obviated, removed, or cured if promptly presented, are waived unless reasonable objection thereto is made at the taking of the deposition. If such objection is made, counsel shall, if possible, agree upon the measures required to obviate, remove, or cure such errors. The measures agreed upon shall be taken. If agreement cannot be reached, the objection shall be noted on the deposition by the officer taking it, and the testimony objected to shall be taken subject to the objection.

(c) Additional objections which may be made at the taking of depositions. Objection may be made at the taking of depositions on the ground of relevancy or privilege, if the notice to take depositions does not clearly indicate that the witness is to be examined on the matters to which the objection relates. See paragraph (a) of this section. Objection may also be made on the ground that the examination is being conducted in such manner as to unreasonably annoy, embarrass, or oppress a deponent or party.

(1) When there is objection to a line of questioning, as permitted by this paragraph, counsel shall, if possible, reach agreement among themselves regarding the proper limits of the examination.

(2) If counsel cannot agree on the proper limits of the examination the taking of depositions shall continue on matters not objected to and counsel shall, within 24 hours, either jointly or individually, telegraph statements of their positions to the presiding officer, together with the telephone numbers at which they and the officer taking the depositions can be reached, or shall otherwise jointly confer with the presiding officer. If individual statements are submitted, copies shall be provided to all counsel participating in the taking of depositions.

(3) The presiding officer shall promptly rule upon the question presented or take such other action as may be appropriate under § 1.313, and shall give notice of his ruling, by telephone, to counsel who submitted statements and to the officer taking the depositions. The presiding officer shall thereafter reduce his ruling to writing.

(4) The taking of depositions shall continue in accordance with the presiding officer's ruling. Such rulings are not subject to appeal.

