(a) Persons before whom depositions may be taken. Depositions shall be taken before any judge of any court of the United States; any U.S. Commissioner; any clerk of a district court; any chancellor, justice or judge of a supreme or superior court; the mayor or chief magistrate of a city; any judge of a county court, or court of common pleas of any of the United States; any notary public, not being of counsel or attorney to any party, nor interested in the event of the proceeding; or presiding officers, as provided in § 1.243.

(b) Attendance of witnesses. The attendance of witnesses at the taking of depositions may be compelled by the use of subpena as provided in §§ 1.331 through 1.340.

(c) Oath; transcript. The officer before whom the deposition is to be taken shall administer an oath or affirmation to the witness and shall personally, or by someone acting under his direction and in his presence record the testimony of the witness. The testimony may be taken stenographically or, upon approval by the presiding officer, testimony may be taken through the use of telephonically or electronically recorded methods, including videotape. In the event these latter methods are used for the deposition, the parties may agree to the waiver of the provisions of paragraphs (e) and (f) as appropriate and as approved by the presiding officer.

(d) Examination. (1) In the taking of depositions upon oral examination, the parties may proceed with examination and cross-examination of deponents as permitted at the hearing. In lieu of participating in the oral examination, parties served with the notice to take depositions may transmit written interrogatories to the officer designated in the notice, who shall propound them to the witness and record the answers verbatim.

(2) In the taking of depositions upon written interrogatories, the party who served the original interrogatories shall transmit copies of all interrogatories to the officer designated in the notice, who shall propound them to the witness and record the answers verbatim.

(e) Submission of deposition to witness; changes; signing. When the testimony is fully transcribed, the deposition of each witness shall be submitted to him for examination and shall be read to or by him, unless such examination and reading are waiver by the witness and by the parties. Any changes in form or substance which the witness desires to make shall be entered upon the deposition by the officer with a statement of the reasons given by the witness for making them. The deposition shall then be signed by the witness, unless the parties by stipulation waive the signing, or the witness is ill, cannot be found, or refuses to sign. If the deposition is not signed by the witness, the officer shall sign it and state on the record the fact of the waiver, the illness or absence of the witness, or of his refusal to sign, together with the reason (if any) given therefor; and the deposition may then be used as fully as though signed, unless upon a motion to suppress, the presiding officer holds that the reason given for the refusal to sign requires rejection of the deposition in whole or in part.

(f) Certification of deposition and filing by officer; copies. The officer shall certify on the deposition that the witness was duly sworn by him, that the deposition is a true record of the testimony given by the witness, and that said officer is not of counsel or attorney to either of the parties, nor interested in the event of the proceeding or investigation. He shall then securely seal the deposition in an envelope endorsed with the title of the action and marked “Deposition of (here insert name of witness)” and shall promptly send the original and two copies of the deposition and of all exhibits, together with the notice and any interrogatories received by him, by certified mail to the Secretary of the Commission.

