(a) A party to a Commission proceeding may request any other party except the Commission to produce and permit inspection and copying or photographing, by or on behalf of the requesting party, of any designated documents, papers, books, accounts, letters, photographs, objects, or tangible things which constitute or contain evidence within the scope of the examination permitted by § 1.311(b) of this part and which are in his possession, custody, or control or to permit entry upon designated land or other property in his possession or control for purposes of inspecting, measuring, surveying, or photographing the property or any designated object or operation thereon within the scope of the examination permitted by § 1.311(b) of this part.

(1) Such requests need not be filed with the presiding officer, but copies of the request shall be served on all other parties to the proceeding.

(2) The party against whom the request was made must, within 10 days, comply with the request or object to the request, claiming a privilege or raising other proper objections. If the request is not complied with in whole or in part, the requesting party may file a motion to compel production of documents or access to property with the presiding officer. A motion to compel must be accompanied by a copy of the original request and the responding party's objection or claim of privilege. Motions to compel must be filed within five business days of the objection or claim of privilege.

(3) In resolving any disputes involving the production of documents or access to property, the presiding officer may direct that the materials objected to be presented to him for in camera inspection.

(b) Any party seeking the production of Commission records should proceed under § 0.460 or § 0.461 of this chapter. See §§ 0.451 through 0.467.

