(a) Comments, replies, and other documents filed in a rulemaking proceeding shall conform to the requirements of § 1.49.

(b) Unless otherwise specified by Commission rules, an original and one copy of all comments, briefs and other documents filed in a rulemaking proceeding shall be furnished to the Commission. The distribution of such copies shall be as follows:

Participants filing the required 2 copies who also wish each Commissioner to have a personal copy of the comments may file an additional 5 copies. The distribution of such copies shall be as follows:

Similarly, members of the general public who wish to express their interest by participating informally in a rulemaking proceeding may do so by submitting an original and one copy of their comments, without regard to form, provided only that the Docket Number is specified in the heading. Informal comments filed after close of the reply comment period, or, if on reconsideration, the reconsideration reply comment period, should be labeled “ex parte” pursuant to § 1.1206(a). Letters submitted to Commissioners or Commission staff will be treated in the same way as informal comments, as set forth above. Also, to the extent that an informal participant wishes to submit to each Commissioner a personal copy of a comment and has not submitted or cannot submit the comment by electronic mail, the participant may file an additional 5 copies. The distribution of such copies shall be as follows:

(c) Any person desiring to file identical documents in more than one docketed rulemaking proceeding shall furnish the Commission two additional copies of any such document for each additional docket. This requirement does not apply if the proceedings have been consolidated.

(d) Participants that file comments and replies in electronic form need only submit one copy of those comments, so long as the submission conforms to any procedural or filing requirements established for formal electronic comments.

(e) Comments and replies and other documents filed in electronic form by a party represented by an attorney shall include the name and mailing address of at least one attorney of record. Parties not represented by an attorney that file comments and replies and other documents in electronic form shall provide their name and mailing address.

