Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, pleadings in Commission proceedings shall be filed in accordance with the provisions of this section. Pleadings associated with licenses, applications, waivers and other documents in the Wireless Radio Services may be filed via the ULS.

(a) Petitions. Petitions to deny may be filed pursuant to ยง 1.939 of this part.

(b) Oppositions. Oppositions to any motion, petition, or request may be filed within 10 days after the original pleading is filed.

(c) Replies. The person who filed the original pleading may reply to oppositions within 5 days after the time for filing oppositions has expired. The reply shall be limited to matters raised in the oppositions, and the response to all such matters shall be set forth in a single pleading; separate replies to individual oppositions shall not be filed.

(d) Requests for temporary relief; shorter filing periods. Oppositions to a request for stay of any order or to a request for other temporary relief shall be filed within 7 days after the request is filed. Replies to oppositions should not be filed and will not be considered. The provisions of ยง 1.4(h) shall not apply in computing the filing date for oppositions to a request for stay or for other temporary relief.

(e) Ex parte disposition of certain pleadings. As a matter of discretion, the Commission may rule ex parte upon requests for continuances and extensions of time, requests for permission to file pleadings in excess of the length prescribed in this chapter, and requests for temporary relief, without waiting for the filing of oppositions or replies.
                

