Except as otherwise specifically provided in the Commission's rules and regulations, the number of copies of pleadings, briefs, and other papers to be filed is as follows:

(a) In hearing proceedings, the following number of copies shall be filed:

(1) If the paper filed relates to a matter to be acted upon by the presiding officer or the Chief Administrative Law Judge, an original and 6 copies shall be filed.

(2) If the paper filed relates to matters to be acted on by the Commission, an original and 14 copies shall be filed.

(3) If more than one person presided (is presiding) at the hearing an additional copy shall be filed for each such additional person.

(b) In rulemaking proceedings which have not been designated for hearing, see section 1.419 of this chapter.

(c) In matters other than rule making and hearing cases, the following number of copies shall be filed:

(1) If the paper filed relates to matters to be acted on by the Commission, an original and 4 copies shall be filed. If the matter relates to Part 22 of the rules, see ยง 22.6.

(2) If the paper filed related to matters to be acted on by staff officials under delegated authority, an original and 4 copies shall be filed. If the matter relates to Part 22 of the rules, see ยง 22.6.

(d) Where statute or regulation provides for service by the Commission of papers filed with the Commission, an additional copy of such papers shall be filed for each person to be served.

(e) The parties to any proceeding may, on notice, be required to file additional copies of any or all filings made in that proceeding.

(f) For application and licensing matters involving the Wireless Radio Services, pleadings, briefs or other documents may be filed electronically in ULS, or if filed manually, one original and one copy of a pleading, brief or other document must be filed.

(g) Participants that file pleadings, briefs or other documents electronically in ULS need only submit one copy, so long as the submission conforms to any procedural or filing requirements established for formal electronic comments. (see ยง 1.49)

(h) Pleadings, briefs or other documents filed electronically in ULS by a party represented by an attorney shall include the name, street address, and telephone number of at least one attorney of record. Parties not represented by an attorney that file electronically in ULS shall provide their name, street address, and telephone number.

