The original of all petitions, motions, pleadings, briefs, and other documents filed by any party represented by counsel shall be signed by at least one attorney of record in his individual name, whose address shall be stated. A party who is not represented by an attorney shall sign and verify the document and state his address. Either the original document, the electronic reproduction of such original document containing the facsimile signature of the attorney or represented party, or, in the case of matters in the Wireless Radio Services, an electronic filing via ULS is acceptable for filing. If a facsimile or electronic reproduction of such original document is filed, the signatory shall retain the original until the Commission's decision is final and no longer subject to judicial review. If pursuant to ยง 1.429(h) a document is filed electronically, a signature will be considered any symbol executed or adopted by the party with the intent that such symbol be a signature, including symbols formed by computer-generated electronic impulses. Except when otherwise specifically provided by rule or statute, documents signed by the attorney for a party need not be verified or accompanied by affidavit. The signature or electronic reproduction thereof by an attorney constitutes a certificate by him that he has read the document; that to the best of his knowledge, information, and belief there is good ground to support it; and that it is not interposed for delay. If the original of a document is not signed or is signed with intent to defeat the purpose of this section, or an electronic reproduction does not contain a facsimile signature, it may be stricken as sham and false, and the matter may proceed as though the document had not been filed. An attorney may be subjected to appropriate disciplinary action, pursuant to ยง 1.24, for a willful violation of this section or if scandalous or indecent matter is inserted.

