(a) General. Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 325(e), for purposes of any proceeding under this subsection, any satellite carrier that retransmits the signal of any broadcast station shall be deemed to designate the Secretary of the Commission as its agent for service of process.

(b) Specific. (1) A television broadcast station shall serve a satellite carrier with a complaint concerning an alleged violation of 47 U.S.C. 325(b)(1) by filing the original and two copies of the complaint on the Secretary of the Commission and serving a copy of the complaint by means of two commonly used overnight delivery services, each addressed to the chief executive officer of the satellite carrier at its principal place of business and each marked “URGENT LITIGATION MATTER” on the outer packaging. Service shall be deemed complete one business day after a copy of the complaint is provided to the delivery services for overnight delivery. On receipt of a complaint filed by a television broadcast station under this subsection, the Secretary of the Commission shall send the original complaint by United States mail, postage prepaid, receipt requested, addressed to the chief executive officer of the satellite carrier at its principal place of business.

(2) Satellite carriers shall provide the name, address, and telephone number (including area code) of their chief executive officers to the Secretary of the Commission, no later than April 15, 2000. Satellite carriers shall update this information, as necessary, in the event that the identity or the address of their respective chief executive officers changes. These updates shall be made by United States mail within seven (7) days of such changes. Complaints sent to the last known address shall be deemed served if the satellite carrier fails to notify the Secretary of the Commission in accordance with this provision.

