(a) Antenna Structure Registration is conducted by the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau as follows:

(1) Each antenna structure owner that must notify the FAA of proposed construction using FAA Form 7460-1 shall, upon proposing new or modified construction, register that antenna structure with the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau using FCC Form 854.

(2) In accordance with § 1.1307 and § 17.4(c) of this chapter, the Bureau will address any environmental concerns prior to processing the registration.

(3) If a final FAA determination of “no hazard” is not submitted along with FCC Form 854, processing of the registration may be delayed or disapproved.

(4) If the owner of the antenna structure cannot file FCC Form 854 because it is subject to a denial of Federal benefits under the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, 21 U.S.C. 862, the first licensee authorized to locate on the structure must register the structure using FCC Form 854, and provide a copy of the Antenna Structure Registration (FCC Form 854R) to the owner. The owner remains responsible for providing a copy of FCC Form 854R to all tenant licensees on the structure and for posting the registration number as required by § 17.4(g) of this chapter.

(5) Upon receipt of FCC Form 854, and attached final FAA determination of “no hazard,” the Bureau prescribes antenna structure painting and/or lighting specifications or other conditions in accordance with the FAA airspace recommendation and returns a completed Antenna Structure Registration (FCC Form 854R) to the registrant. If the proposed structure is disapproved the registrant is so advised.

(b) Each operating Bureau or Office examines the applications for Commission authorization for which it is responsible to ensure compliance with FAA notification procedures as well as Commission Antenna Structure Registration as follows:

(1) If Antenna Structure Registration is required, the operating Bureau reviews the application for the Antenna Structure Registration Number and proceeds as follows:

(i) If the application contains the Antenna Structure Registration Number or if the applicant seeks a Cellular or PCS system authorization, the operating Bureau processes the application.

(ii) If the application does not contain the Antenna Structure Registration Number, but the structure owner has already filed FCC Form 854, the operating Bureau places the application on hold until Registration can be confirmed, so long as the owner exhibits due diligence in filing.

(iii) If the application does not contain the Antenna Structure Registration Number, and the structure owner has not filed FCC Form 854, the operating Bureau notifies the applicant that FCC Form 854 must be filed and places the application on hold until Registration can be confirmed, so long as the owner exhibits due diligence in filing.

(2) If Antenna Structure Registration is not required, the operating Bureau processes the application.

(c) Where one or more antenna farm areas have been designated for a community or communities (see § 17.9 of this chapter), an application proposing the erection of an antenna structure over 1,000 feet in height above ground to serve such community or communities will not be accepted for filing unless:

(1) It is proposed to locate the antenna structure in a designated antenna farm area, or

(2) It is accompanied by a statement from the Federal Aviation Administration that the proposed structure will not constitute a menace to air navigation, or

(3) It is accompanied by a request for waiver setting forth reasons sufficient, if true, to justify such a waiver.
                

