(a) Each applicant is responsible for the continuing accuracy and completeness of information furnished in a pending application or in Commission proceedings involving a pending application. Except as otherwise required by rules applicable to particular types of applications, whenever the information furnished in the pending application is no longer substantially accurate and complete in all significant respects, the applicant shall as promptly as possible and in any event within 30 days, unless good cause is shown, amend or request the amendment of the application so as to furnish such additional or corrected information as may be appropriate. Except as otherwise required by rules applicable to particular types of applications, whenever there has been a substantial change as to any other matter which may be of decisional significance in a Commission proceeding involving the pending application, the applicant shall as promptly as possible and in any event within 30 days, unless good cause is shown, submit a statement furnishing such additional or corrected information as may be appropriate, which shall be served upon parties of record in accordance with § 1.47. Where the matter is before any court for review, statements and requests to amend shall in addition be served upon the Commission's General Counsel. For the purposes of this section, an application is “pending” before the Commission from the time it is accepted for filing by the Commission until a Commission grant or denial of the application is no longer subject to reconsideration by the Commission or to review by any court.

(b) Applications in broadcast services subject to competitive bidding will be subject to the provisions of §§ 1.2105(b), 73.5002 and 73.3522 of this chapter regarding the modification of their applications.

(c) All broadcast permittees and licensees must report annually to the Commission any adverse finding or adverse final action taken by any court or administrative body that involves conduct bearing on the permittee's or licensee's character qualifications and that would be reportable in connection with an application for renewal as reflected in the renewal form. If a report is required by this paragraph(s), it shall be filed on the anniversary of the date that the licensee's renewal application is required to be filed, except that licensees owning multiple stations with different anniversary dates need file only one report per year on the anniversary of their choice, provided that their reports are not more than one year apart. Permittees and licensees bear the obligation to make diligent, good faith efforts to become knowledgeable of any such reportable adjudicated misconduct.
                

