(a) Notwithstanding the requirements of §§ 1.716 through 1.718, the following procedures shall apply to complaints alleging that a carrier has violated section 258 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996, by making an unauthorized change of a subscriber's preferred carrier, as defined by § 64.1100(e) of this chapter.

(b) Form. The complaint shall be in writing, and should contain: The complainant's name, address, telephone number and e-mail address (if the complainant has one); the name of both the allegedly unauthorized carrier, as defined by § 64.1100(d) of this chapter, and authorized carrier, as defined by § 64.1100(c) of this chapter; a complete statement of the facts (including any documentation) tending to show that such carrier engaged in an unauthorized change of the subscriber's preferred carrier; a statement of whether the complainant has paid any disputed charges to the allegedly unauthorized carrier; and the specific relief sought.

(c) Procedure. The Commission will resolve slamming complaints under the definitions and procedures established in §§ 64.1100 through 64.1190 of this chapter. The Commission will issue a written (or electronic) order informing the complainant, the unauthorized carrier, and the authorized carrier of its finding, and ordering the appropriate remedy, if any, as defined by §§ 64.1160 through 64.1170 of this chapter.

(d) Unsatisfied Informal Complaints Involving Unauthorized Changes of a Subscriber's Preferred Carrier; Formal Complaints Relating Back to the Filing Dates of Informal Complaints. If the complainant is unsatisfied with the resolution of a complaint under this section, the complainant may file a formal complaint with the Commission in the form specified in § 1.721. Such filing will be deemed to relate back to the filing date of the informal complaint filed under this section, so long as the informal complaint complied with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and provided that: The formal complaint is filed within 45 days from the date an order resolving the informal complaint filed under this section is mailed or delivered electronically to the complainant; makes reference to both the informal complaint number assigned to and the initial date of filing the informal complaint filed under this section; and is based on the same cause of action as the informal complaint filed under this section. If no formal complaint is filed within the 45-day period, the complainant will be deemed to have abandoned its right to bring a formal complaint regarding the cause of action at issue.

