(a) Applications for cable landing licenses under 47 U.S.C. 34-39 and Executive Order No. 10530, dated May 10, 1954, should be filed in accordance with the provisions of that Executive Order. These applications should contain:

(1) The name, address and telephone number(s) of the applicant;

(2) The Government, State, or Territory under the laws of which each corporate or partnership applicant is organized;

(3) The name, title, post office address, and telephone number of the officer and any other contact point, such as legal counsel, to whom correspondence concerning the application is to be addressed;

(4) A description of the submarine cable, including the type and number of channels and the capacity thereof;

(5) A specific description of the cable landing stations on the shore of the United States and in foreign countries where the cable will land. The description shall include a map showing specific geographic coordinates, and may also include street addresses, of each landing station. The map must also specify the coordinates of any beach joint where those coordinates differ from the coordinates of the cable station. The applicant initially may file a general geographic description of the landing points; however, grant of the application will be conditioned on the Commission's final approval of a more specific description of the landing points, including all information required by this paragraph, to be filed by the applicant no later than ninety (90) days prior to construction. The Commission will give public notice of the filing of this description, and grant of the license will be considered final if the Commission does not notify the applicant otherwise in writing no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the specific description of the landing points, unless the Commission designates a different time period;

(6) A statement as to whether the cable will be operated on a common carrier or non-common carrier basis;

(7) A list of the proposed owners of the cable system, including each U.S. cable landing station, their respective voting and ownership interests in each U.S. cable landing station, their respective voting interests in the wet link portion of the cable system, and their respective ownership interests by segment in the cable;

(8) For each applicant of the cable system, a certification as to whether the applicant is, or is affiliated with, a foreign carrier, including an entity that owns or controls a foreign cable landing station in any of the cable's destination markets. Include the citizenship of each applicant and information and certifications required in §§ 63.18(h) through (k), and in § 63.18(o), of this chapter;

(9) A certification that the applicant accepts and will abide by the routine conditions specified in paragraph (g) of this section; and

(10) Any other information that may be necessary to enable the Commission to act on the application.
                

(11)(i) If applying for authority to assign or transfer control of an interest in a cable system, the applicant shall complete paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section for both the transferor/assignor and the transferee/assignee. Only the transferee/assignee needs to complete paragraphs (a)(8) through (a)(9) of this section. At the beginning of the application, the applicant should also include a narrative of the means by which the transfer or assignment will take place. The application shall also specify, on a segment specific basis, the percentage of voting and ownership interests being transferred or assigned in the cable system, including in a U.S. cable landing station. The Commission reserves the right to request additional information as to the particulars of the transaction to aid it in making its public interest determination.

(ii) In the event the transaction requiring an assignment or transfer of control application also requires the filing of a foreign carrier affiliation notification pursuant to § 1.768, the applicant shall reference in the application the foreign carrier affiliation notification and the date of its filing. See § 1.768. See also paragraph (g)(7) of this section (providing for post-transaction notification of pro forma assignments and transfers of control).

(iii) An assignee or transferee must notify the Commission no later than thirty (30) days after either consummation of the assignment or transfer or a decision not to consummate the assignment or transfer. The notification shall identify the file numbers under which the initial license and the authorization of the assignment or transfer were granted.

(b) These applications are acted upon by the Commission after obtaining the approval of the Secretary of State and such assistance from any executive department or establishment of the Government as it may require.

(c) Original files relating to submarine cable landing licenses and applications for licenses since June 30, 1934, are kept by the Commission. Such applications for licenses (including all documents and exhibits filed with and made a part thereof, with the exception of any maps showing the exact location of the submarine cable or cables to be licensed) and the licenses issued pursuant thereto, with the exception of such maps, shall, unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, be open to public inspection in the offices of the Commission in Washington, D.C.

(d) Original files relating to licenses and applications for licenses for the landing operation of cables prior to June 30, 1934, were kept by the Department of State, and such files prior to 1930 have been transferred to the Executive and Foreign Affairs Branch of the General Records Office of the National Archives. Requests for inspection of these files should, however, be addressed to the Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C., 20554; and the Commission will obtain such files for a temporary period in order to permit inspection at the offices of the Commission.

(e) A separate application shall be filed with respect to each individual cable system for which a license is requested, or for which modification or amendment of a previous license is requested. The application fee for a non common-carrier cable landing license is payment type code BJT. Applicants for common carrier cable landing licenses shall pay the fees for both a common carrier cable landing license (payment type code CXT) and overseas cable construction (payment type code BIT). There is no application fee for modification of a cable landing license, except that the fee for assignment or transfer of control of a cable landing license is payment type code CUT. See § 1.1107(2) of this chapter.

(f) Applicants shall disclose to any interested member of the public, upon written request, accurate information concerning the location and timing for the construction of a submarine cable system authorized under this section. This disclosure shall be made within 30 days of receipt of the request.

(g) Routine conditions. Except as otherwise ordered by the Commission, the following rules apply to each licensee of a cable landing license granted on or after March 15, 2002:

(1) Grant of the cable landing license is subject to:

(i) All rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission;

(ii) Any treaties or conventions relating to communications to which the United States is or may hereafter become a party; and

(iii) Any action by the Commission or the Congress of the United States rescinding, changing, modifying or amending any rights accruing to any person by grant of the license;

(2) The location of the cable system within the territorial waters of the United States of America, its territories and possessions, and upon its shores shall be in conformity with plans approved by the Secretary of the Army. The cable shall be moved or shifted by the licensee at its expense upon request of the Secretary of the Army, whenever he or she considers such course necessary in the public interest, for reasons of national defense, or for the maintenance and improvement of harbors for navigational purposes;

(3) The licensee shall at all times comply with any requirements of United States government authorities regarding the location and concealment of the cable facilities, buildings, and apparatus for the purpose of protecting and safeguarding the cables from injury or destruction by enemies of the United States of America;

(4) The licensee, or any person or company controlling it, controlled by it, or under direct or indirect common control with it, does not enjoy and shall not acquire any right to handle traffic to or from the United States, its territories or its possessions unless such service is authorized by the Commission pursuant to section 214 of the Communications Act, as amended;

(5)(i) The licensee shall be prohibited from agreeing to accept special concessions directly or indirectly from any foreign carrier, including any entity that owns or controls a foreign cable landing station, where the foreign carrier possesses sufficient market power on the foreign end of the route to affect competition adversely in the U.S. market, and from agreeing to accept special concessions in the future.

(ii) For purposes of this section, a special concession is defined as an exclusive arrangement involving services, facilities, or functions on the foreign end of a U.S. international route that are necessary to land, connect, or operate submarine cables, where the arrangement is not offered to similarly situated U.S. submarine cable owners, indefeasible-right-of-user holders, or lessors, and includes arrangements for the terms for acquisition, resale, lease, transfer and use of capacity on the cable; access to collocation space; the opportunity to provide or obtain backhaul capacity; access to technical network information; and interconnection to the public switched telecommunications network.
                

(6) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(7) of this section, the cable landing license and rights granted in the license shall not be transferred, assigned, or disposed of, or disposed of indirectly by transfer of control of the licensee, unless the Federal Communications Commission gives prior consent in writing;

(7) A pro forma assignee or person or company that is the subject of a pro forma transfer of control of a cable landing license is not required to seek prior approval for the pro forma transaction. A pro forma assignee or person or company that is the subject of a pro forma transfer of control must notify the Commission no later than thirty (30) days after the assignment or transfer of control is consummated. The notification must certify that the assignment or transfer of control was pro forma, as defined in § 63.24 of this chapter, and, together with all previous pro forma transactions, does not result in a change of the licensee's ultimate control. The licensee may file a single notification for an assignment or transfer of control of multiple licenses issued in the name of the licensee if each license is identified by the file number under which it was granted;

(8) Unless the licensee has notified the Commission in the application of the precise locations at which the cable will land, as required by paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the licensee shall notify the Commission no later than ninety (90) days prior to commencing construction at that landing location. The Commission will give public notice of the filing of each description, and grant of the cable landing license will be considered final with respect to that landing location unless the Commission issues a notice to the contrary no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the specific description. See paragraph (a)(5) of this section;

(9) The Commission reserves the right to require the licensee to file an environmental assessment should it determine that the landing of the cable at the specific locations and construction of necessary cable landing stations may significantly affect the environment within the meaning of § 1.1307 implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. See § 1.1307(a) and (b). The cable landing license is subject to modification by the Commission under its review of any environmental assessment or environmental impact statement that it may require pursuant to its rules. See also § 1.1306 note 1 and § 1.1307(c) and (d);

(10) The Commission reserves the right, pursuant to section 2 of the Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C. 35, Executive Order No. 10530 as amended, and section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 214, to impose common carrier regulation or other regulation consistent with the Cable Landing License Act on the operations of the cable system if it finds that the public interest so requires;

(11) The licensee, or in the case of multiple licensees, the licensees collectively, shall maintain de jure and de facto control of the U.S. portion of the cable system, including the cable landing stations in the United States, sufficient to comply with the requirements of the Commission's rules and any specific conditions of the license;

(12) The licensee shall comply with the requirements of § 1.768;

(13) The cable landing license is revocable by the Commission after due notice and opportunity for hearing pursuant to section 2 of the Cable Landing License Act, 47 U.S.C. 35, or for failure to comply with the terms of the license or with the Commission's rules; and

(14) The licensee must notify the Commission within thirty (30) days of the date the cable is placed into service. The cable landing license shall expire twenty-five (25) years from the in-service date, unless renewed or extended upon proper application. Upon expiration, all rights granted under the license shall be terminated.

(h) Applicants/Licensees. Except as otherwise required by the Commission, the following entities, at a minimum, shall be applicants for, and licensees on, a cable landing license:

(1) Any entity that owns or controls a cable landing station in the United States; and

(2) All other entities owning or controlling a five percent (5%) or greater interest in the cable system and using the U.S. points of the cable system.

(i) Processing of cable landing license applications. The Commission will take action upon an application eligible for streamlined processing, as specified in paragraph (k) of this section, within forty-five (45) days after release of the public notice announcing the application as acceptable for filing and eligible for streamlined processing. If the Commission deems an application seeking streamlined processing acceptable for filing but ineligible for streamlined processing, or if an applicant does not seek streamlined processing, the Commission will issue public notice indicating that the application is ineligible for streamlined processing. Within ninety (90) days of the public notice, the Commission will take action upon the application or provide public notice that, because the application raises questions of extraordinary complexity, an additional 90-day period for review is needed. Each successive 90-day period may be so extended.

(j) Applications for streamlining. Each applicant seeking to use the streamlined grant procedure specified in paragraph (i) of this section shall request streamlined processing in its application. Applications for streamlined processing shall include the information and certifications required by paragraph (k) of this section. On the date of filing with the Commission, the applicant shall also send a complete copy of the application, or any major amendments or other material filings regarding the application, to: U.S. Coordinator, EB/CIP, U.S. Department of State, 2201 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20520-5818; Office of Chief Counsel/NTIA, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th St. and Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20230; and Defense Information Systems Agency, ATTN: GC/DO1, 6910 Cooper Avenue, Fort Meade, MD 20755-7088, and shall certify such service on a service list attached to the application or other filing.

(k) Eligibility for streamlining. Each applicant must demonstrate eligibility for streamlining by:

(1) Certifying that it is not a foreign carrier and it is not affiliated with a foreign carrier in any of the cable's destination markets;

(2) Demonstrating pursuant to § 63.12(c)(l)(i) through (iii) of this chapter that any such foreign carrier or affiliated foreign carrier lacks market power; or

(3) Certifying that the destination market where the applicant is, or has an affiliation with, a foreign carrier is a World Trade Organization (WTO) Member and the applicant agrees to accept and abide by the reporting requirements set out in paragraph (l) of this section. An application that includes an applicant that is, or is affiliated with, a carrier with market power in a cable's non-WTO Member destination country is not eligible for streamlining.

(4) Certifying that for applications for a license to construct and operate a submarine cable system or to modify the construction of a previously approved submarine cable system the applicant is not required to submit a consistency certification to any state pursuant to section 1456(c)(3)(A) of the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA), 16 U.S.C. 1456.
                

(l) Reporting Requirements Applicable to Licensees Affiliated with a Carrier with Market Power in a Cable's WTO Destination Market. Any licensee that is, or is affiliated with, a carrier with market power in any of the cable's WTO Member destination countries, and that requests streamlined processing of an application under paragraphs (j) and (k) of this section, must comply with the following requirements:

(1) File quarterly reports summarizing the provisioning and maintenance of all network facilities and services procured from the licensee's affiliate in that destination market, within ninety (90) days from the end of each calendar quarter. These reports shall contain the following:

(i) The types of facilities and services provided (for example, a lease of wet link capacity in the cable, collocation of licensee's equipment in the cable station with the ability to provide backhaul, or cable station and backhaul services provided to the licensee);

(ii) For provisioned facilities and services, the volume or quantity provisioned, and the time interval between order and delivery; and

(iii) The number of outages and intervals between fault report and facility or service restoration; and

(2) File quarterly circuit status reports, within ninety (90) days from the end of each calendar quarter and in the format set out by the § 43.82 of this chapter annual circuit status manual with the exception that activated or idle circuits must be reported on a facility-by-facility basis and derived circuits need not be specified. See § 63.10(c)(5) of this chapter.

(m) (1) Except as specified in paragraph (m)(2) of this section, amendments to pending applications, and applications to modify a license, including amendments or applications to add a new applicant or licensee, shall be signed by each initial applicant or licensee, respectively. Joint applicants or licensees may appoint one party to act as proxy for purposes of complying with this requirement.

(2) Any licensee that seeks to relinquish its interest in a cable landing license shall file an application to modify the license. Such application must include a demonstration that the applicant is not required to be a licensee under paragraph (h) of this section and that the remaining licensee(s) will retain collectively de jure and de facto control of the U.S. portion of the cable system sufficient to comply with the requirements of the Commission's rules and any specific conditions of the license, and must be served on each other licensee of the cable system.

(n) Subject to the availability of electronic forms, all applications and notifications described in this section must be filed electronically through the International Bureau Filing System (IBFS). A list of forms that are available for electronic filing can be found on the IBFS homepage. For information on electronic filing requirements, see part 1, §§ 1.1000 through 1.10018 and the IBFS homepage at http://www.fcc.gov/ibfs. See also §§ 63.20 and 63.53 of this chapter.
                

