The application procedures set forth in §§ 1.61 through 1.68 are general in nature. Applicants should also refer to the Commission rules regarding the payment of statutory charges (subpart G of this part) and the use of the FCC Registration Number (FRN) (see subpart W of this part). More detailed procedures are set forth in this chapter as follows:

(a) Rules governing applications for authorizations in the Broadcast Radio Services are set forth in subpart D of this part.

(b) Rules governing applications for authorizations in the Common Carrier Radio Services are set forth in subpart E of this part.

(c) Rules governing applications for authorizations in the Private Radio Services are set forth in subpart F of this part.

(d) Rules governing applications for authorizations in the Experimental Radio Services (other than broadcast) are set forth in part 5 of this chapter.

(e) Rules governing applications for authorizations in the Domestic Public Radio Services are set forth in part 21 of this chapter.

(f) Rules governing applications for authorizations in the Industrial, Scientific, and Medical Service are set forth in part 18 of this chapter.

(g) Rules governing applications for certification of equipment are set forth in part 2, subpart J, of this chapter.

(h) Rules governing applications for commercial radio operator licenses are set forth in part 13 of this chapter.

(i) Rules governing applications for authorizations in the Common Carrier and Private Radio terrestrial microwave services and Local Multipoint Distribution Services are set out in part 101 of this chapter.

