(a) Petitions. (1) A petition seeking pricing flexibility for specific services pursuant to part 69, subpart H, of this chapter, with respect to a metropolitan statistical area (MSA), as defined in § 22.909(a) of this chapter, or the non-MSA parts of a study area, must show that the price cap LEC has met the relevant thresholds set forth in part 69, subpart H, of this chapter.

(2) The petition must make a separate showing for each MSA for which the petitioner seeks pricing flexibility, and for the portion of the study area that falls outside any MSA.

(3) Petitions seeking pricing flexibility for services described in §§ 69.709(a) and 69.711(a) of this chapter must include:

(i) The total number of wire centers in the relevant MSA or non-MSA parts of a study area, as described in § 69.707 of this chapter;

(ii) The number and location of the wire centers in which competitors have collocated in the relevant MSA or non-MSA parts of a study area, as described in § 69.707 of this chapter;

(iii) In each wire center on which the price cap LEC bases its petition, the name of at least one collocator that uses transport facilities owned by a provider other than the price cap LEC to transport traffic from that wire center; and

(iv)(A) The percentage of the wire centers in the relevant MSA or non-MSA area, as described in § 69.707 of this chapter, in which competitors have collocated and use transport facilities owned by a provider other than the price cap LEC to transport traffic from that wire center; or

(B) The percentage of total base period revenues generated by the services at issue in the petition that are attributable to wire centers in the relevant MSA or non-MSA area, as described in § 69.707 of this chapter, in which competitors have collocated and use transport facilities owned by a provider other than the price cap LEC to transport traffic from that wire center.

(4) Petitions seeking pricing flexibility for services described in § 69.713(a) of this chapter must make a showing sufficient to meet the relevant requirements of § 69.713 of this chapter.

(b) Confidential treatment. A price cap LEC wishing to request confidential treatment of information contained in a pricing flexibility petition should demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the information should be withheld from public inspection in accordance with the requirements of § 0.459 of this chapter.

(c) Oppositions. Any interested party may file comments or oppositions to a petition for pricing flexibility. Comments and oppositions shall be filed no later than 15 days after the petition is filed. Time shall be computed pursuant to § 1.4.

(d) Replies. The petitioner may file a reply to any oppositions filed in response to its petition for pricing flexibility. Replies shall be filed no later than 10 days after comments are filed. Time shall be computed pursuant to § 1.4.

(e) Copies, service. (1)(i) Any price cap LEC filing a petition for pricing flexibility must submit its petition pursuant to the Commission's Electronic Tariff Filing System (ETFS), following the procedures set forth in § 61.14(a) of this chapter.

(ii) The price cap LEC must provide to each party upon which the price cap LEC relies to meet its obligations under paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, the information it provides about that party in its petition, even if the price cap LEC requests that the information be kept confidential under paragraph (b) of this section.

(A) The price cap LEC must certify in its pricing flexibility petition that it has made such information available to the party.

(B) The price cap LEC may provide data to the party in redacted form, revealing only that information to the party that relates to the party.

(C) The price cap LEC must provide to the Commission copies of the information it provides to such parties.

(2)(i) Interested parties filing oppositions or comments in response to a petition for pricing flexibility may file those comments through ETFS.

(ii) Any interested party electing to file an opposition or comment in response to a pricing flexibility petition through a method other than ETFS must file an original and four copies of each opposition or comment with the Commission, as follows: the original and three copies of each pleading shall be filed with the Secretary, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20554; one copy must be delivered directly to the Commission's copy contractor. Additional, separate copies shall be served upon the Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau and the Chief, Pricing Policy Division.

(iii) In addition, oppositions and comments shall be served either personally or via facsimile on the petitioner. If an opposition or comment is served via facsimile, a copy of the opposition or comment must be sent to the petitioner via first class mail on the same day as the facsimile transmission.

(3) Replies shall be filed with the Commission through ETFS. In addition, petitioners choosing to file a reply must serve a copy on each party filing an opposition or comment, either personally or via facsimile. If a reply is served via facsimile, a copy of the reply must be sent to the recipient of that reply via first class mail on the same day as the facsimile transmission.

(f) Disposition. (1) A petition for pricing flexibility pertaining to special access and dedicated transport services shall be deemed granted unless the Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, denies the petition no later than 90 days after the close of the pleading cycle. The period for filing applications for review begins the day the Bureau grants or denies the petition, or the day that the petition is deemed denied. Time shall be computed pursuant to § 1.4.

(2) A petition for pricing flexibility pertaining to common-line and traffic-sensitive services shall be deemed granted unless the Commission denies the petition no later than five months after the close of the pleading cycle. Time shall be computed pursuant to § 1.4.

