(a) Mutually exclusive applications for permits and licenses in the services specified in ยง 1.821 may be designated for random selection according to the procedures established for each service. Following the random selection, the Commission shall determine whether the applicant is qualified to receive the permit or license. If, after reviewing the tentative selectee's application and pleadings properly filed against it, the Commission determines that a substantial and material question of fact exists, it shall designate the qualifying issue(s) for an expedited hearing.

(b) Expedited hearing procedures. (1) Hearings may be conducted by the Commission or an Administrative Law Judge. In the case of a question which requires oral testimony for its resolution, the hearing will be conducted by an Administrative Law Judge.

(2) Parties have ten (10) days from publication in the Federal Register of the hearing designation order to file notices of appearance.

(3) When the Commission, under ยง 1.221, issues an order stating the time, place, and nature of the hearing, this order shall instruct the applicant to submit its direct case in writing within thirty (30) days from the order's release date, or as otherwise specified in the order. The direct written case must set forth all those facts and circumstances related to the issues in the designation order. Documentary evidence upon which the applicant relies must be attached. Each exhibit must be numbered and must be accompanied by an affidavit from someone who has personal knowledge of the facts in the submission and who attests to the truth of the submission.

(4) The order will also specify those petitioners that directly raised an issue which was designated and will inform these parties of their opportunity to submit a written rebuttal case within twenty (20) days after the direct case is due. The procedures in paragraph (b)(3) of this section will apply as to documentary evidence, exhibits, and affidavits.

(5) Appeal of initial decisions rendered by an Administrative Law Judge shall lie with the Commission.

