(a) If there are mutually exclusive applications for an initial conditional license or license, the Commission may use the random selection process to select the conditional licensee or licensee. Each such random selection shall be conducted under the direction of the Office of the Managing Director in conjunction with the Office of the Secretary. Following the random selection, the Commission shall announce the tentative selectee and determine whether the applicant is qualified to receive the conditional license or license. If the Commission determines that the tentative selectee is qualified, it shall grant the application. In the event that the tentative selectee's application is denied, a second random selection will be conducted. Petitions for Reconsideration, Motions to Stay or Applications for Review may be submitted at the time the Commission grants or denies the application of the tentative selectee. The filing periods specified in the rules shall apply for such pleadings.

(b) Competing applications for conditional licenses and licenses shall be designated for random selection in accordance with §§ 1.1621, 1.1622 (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e), and 1.1623. No preferences pursuant to § 1.1622 (b)(2) or (b)(3) shall be granted to any MMDS or MDS H-channel applicant whose owners, when aggregated, have an ownership interest of more than 50 percent in the media of mass communication whose service areas, as set forth at § 1.1622 (e)(1) through (e)(7), wholly encompass or are encompassed by the protected service area contour, computed in accordance with § 21.902(d) of this chapter, for which the license or conditional license is sought.

(c) Petitions to Deny may be filed only against the tentative selectee. These petitions must be filed within 30 days of the Public Notice announcing such tentative selection. A consolidated reply may be filed within 15 days of the due date for Petitions to Deny.

