Under the rules set forth in this subpart, certain notifications and applications to the Commission must be filed by licensees and spectrum lessees that enter into spectrum leasing arrangements. In addition, the rules require that certain notifications and applications be filed by the licensee and/or the spectrum lessee after they have entered into such arrangements. Whether the signature of the licensee, the spectrum lessee, or both, is required will depend on the particular notification or application involved, and whether the leasing arrangement concerns a spectrum manager leasing arrangement or a de facto transfer leasing arrangement.

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the notifications, applications, amendments, and related statements of fact required by the Commission (including certifications) must be signed as follows (either electronically or manually, see paragraph (d) of this section):

(1) By the licensee or spectrum lessee, if an individual;

(2) By one of the partners if the licensee or lessee is a partnership;

(3) By an officer, director, or duly authorized employee, if the licensee or lessee is a corporation; or

(4) By a member who is an officer, if the licensee or lessee is an unincorporated association.

(b) Notifications, applications, amendments, and related statements of fact required by the Commission may be signed by the licensee or spectrum lessee's attorney in case of the licensee's or lessee's physical disability or absence from the United States. The attorney shall, when applicable, separately set forth the reason why the application is not signed by the licensee or lessee. In addition, if any matter is stated on the basis of the attorney's belief only (rather than knowledge), the attorney shall separately set forth the reasons for believing that such statements are true. Only the original of notifications, applications, amendments, and related statements of fact need be signed.

(c) Notifications, applications, amendments, and related statements of fact need not be signed under oath. Willful false statements made therein, however, are punishable by fine and imprisonment (see 18 U.S.C. section 1001), and by appropriate administrative sanctions, including revocation of license pursuant to section 312(a)(1) of the Communications Act of 1934 or revocation of the spectrum leasing arrangement.

(d) “Signed,” as used in this section, means, for manually filed notifications and applications only, an original hand-written signature or, for electronically filed notifications and applications only, an electronic signature. An electronic signature shall consist of the name of the licensee or spectrum lessee transmitted electronically via ULS and entered on the application as a signature.

