
                  Antenna structure. The term antenna structure includes the radiating and receiving elements, its supporting structures, towers, and all appurtenances mounted thereon.


                  Application. A request on a standard form for a station license as defined in § 3(b) of the Communications Act, signed in accordance with § 1.917 of this part, or a similar request to amend a pending application or to modify or renew an authorization. The term also encompasses requests to assign rights granted by the authorization or to transfer control of entities holding authorizations.


                  Auctionable license. A Wireless Radio Service license identified in § 1.2102 of this part for which competitive bidding is used to select from among mutually exclusive applications.


                  Auctionable license application. A Wireless Radio Service license application identified in § 1.2102 of this part for which competitive bidding is used if the application is subject to mutually exclusive applications.


                  Authorization. A written instrument or oral statement issued by the FCC conveying authority to operate, for a specified term, to a station in the Wireless Telecommunications Services.


                  Authorized bandwidth. The maximum bandwidth permitted to be used by a station as specified in the station license. See § 2.202 of this chapter.


                  Authorized power. The maximum power a station is permitted to use. This power is specified by the Commission in the station's authorization or rules.


                  Control station. A fixed station, the transmissions of which are used to control automatically the emissions or operations of a radio station, or a remote base station transmitter.


                  Effective radiated power (ERP). The product of the power supplied to the antenna multiplied by the gain of the antenna referenced to a half-wave dipole.


                  Equivalent Isotopically Radiated Power (EIRP). The product of the power supplied to the antenna multiplied by the antenna gain referenced to an isotropic antenna.


                  Fixed station. A station operating at a fixed location.


                  Harmful interference. Interference that endangers the functioning of a radionavigation service or of other safety services or seriously degrades, obstructs, or repeatedly interrupts a radio communications service operating in accordance with the Radio Regulations.


                  Mobile relay station. A fixed transmitter used to facilitate the transmission of communications between mobile units.


                  Mobile station. A radio communication station capable of being moved and which ordinarily does move.


                  Non-auctionable license. A Wireless Radio Service license identified in § 1.2102 of this part for which competitive bidding is not used to select from among mutually exclusive applications.


                  Non-auctionable license application. A Wireless Radio Service license application for which § 1.2102 of this part precludes the use of competitive bidding if the application is subject to mutually exclusive applications.


                  Private Wireless Services. Wireless Radio Services authorized by parts 80, 87, 90, 95, 97, and 101 that are not Wireless Telecommunications Services, as defined in this part.


                  Radio station. A separate transmitter or a group of transmitters under simultaneous common control, including the accessory equipment required for carrying on a radio communications service.


                  Receipt date. The date an electronic or paper application is received at the appropriate location at the Commission or U.S. Bank. Amendments to pending applications may result in the assignment of a new receipt date in accordance with § 1.927 of this part.


                  Universal Licensing System. The Universal Licensing System (ULS) is the consolidated database, application filing system, and processing system for all Wireless Radio Services. ULS supports electronic filing of all applications and related documents by applicants and licensees in the Wireless Radio Services, and provides public access to licensing information.


                  Wireless Radio Services. All radio services authorized in parts 13, 20, 22, 24, 26, 27, 74, 80, 87, 90, 95, 97 and 101 of this chapter, whether commercial or private in nature.


                  Wireless Telecommunications Services. Wireless Radio Services, whether fixed or mobile, that meet the definition of “telecommunications service” as defined by 47 U.S.C. 153, as amended, and are therefore subject to regulation on a common carrier basis. Wireless Telecommunications Services include all radio services authorized by parts 20, 22, 24, 26, and 27 of this chapter. In addition, Wireless Telecommunications Services include Public Coast Stations authorized by part 80 of this chapter, Commercial Mobile Radio Services authorized by part 90 of this chapter, and common carrier fixed microwave services, Local Television Transmission Service (LTTS), Local Multipoint Distribution Service (LMDS), and Digital Electronic Message Service (DEMS), authorized by part 101 of this chapter.

