(a) A license issued under part 25 of the Commission's rules that provides authority for an ATC will be considered to provide “exclusive use rights” for purpose of this subpart of the rules.

(b) For the purpose of this subpart, a Mobile Satellite Service licensee with an ATC authorization may enter into a spectrum manager leasing arrangement with a spectrum lessee (see § 1.9020). Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ 1.9030 and 1.9035, a MSS licensee is not permitted to enter into a de facto transfer leasing arrangement with a spectrum lessee.

(c) For purposes of § 1.9020(d)(8), the Mobile Satellite Service licensee's obligation, if any, concerning the E911 requirements in § 20.18 of this chapter, will, with respect to an ATC, be specified in the licensing document for the ATC.

(d) The following provision shall apply, in lieu of § 1.9020(m), with respect to spectrum leasing of an ATC:

(1) Although the term of a spectrum manager leasing arrangement may not be longer than the term of the ATC license, a licensee and spectrum lessee that have entered into an arrangement, the term of which continues to the end of the current term of the license may, contingent on the Commission's grant of a modification or renewal of the license to extend the license term, extend the spectrum leasing arrangement into the new license term. The Commission must be notified of the extension of the spectrum leasing arrangement at the same time that the licensee submits the application seeking an extended license term. In the event the parties to the arrangement agree to extend it into the new license term, the spectrum lessee may continue to operate consistent with the terms and conditions of the expired license, without further action by the Commission, until such time as the Commission makes a final determination with respect to the extension or renewal of the license.

(2) Reserved.

