(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, applications, amendments, and related statements of fact required by the Commission must be signed as follows (either electronically or manually, see paragraph (d) of this section): (1) By the applicant, if the applicant is an individual; (2) by one of the partners if the applicant is a partnership; (3) by an officer, director, or duly authorized employee, if the applicant is a corporation; (4) by a member who is an officer, if the applicant is an unincorporated association; or (5) by the trustee if the applicant is an amateur radio service club. Applications, amendments, and related statements of fact filed on behalf of eligible government entities such as states and territories of the United States, their political subdivisions, the District of Columbia, and units of local government, including unincorporated municipalities, must be signed by a duly elected or appointed official who is authorized to do so under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction.

(b) Applications, amendments, and related statements of fact required by the Commission may be signed by the applicant's attorney in case of the applicant's physical disability or absence from the United States, or by applicant's designated vessel master when a temporary permit is requested for a vessel. The attorney shall, when applicable, separately set forth the reason why the application is not signed by the applicant. In addition, if any matter is stated on the basis of the attorney's or master's belief only (rather than knowledge), the attorney or master shall separately set forth the reasons for believing that such statements are true. Only the original of applications, amendments, and related statements of fact need be signed.

(c) Applications, amendments, and related statements of fact need not be signed under oath. Willful false statements made therein, however, are punishable by fine and imprisonment, 18 U.S.C. 1001, and by appropriate administrative sanctions, including revocation of station license pursuant to 312(a)(1) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.

(d) “Signed,” as used in this section, means, for manually filed applications only, an original hand-written signature or, for electronically filed applications only, an electronic signature. An electronic signature shall consist of the name of the applicant transmitted electronically via ULS and entered on the application as a signature.

