(a) As a result of mutual agreements, the Commission has, since May 1950 had an arrangement with the Canadian Department of Communications for the exchange of frequency assignment information and engineering comments on proposed assignments along the Canada-United States borders in certain bands above 30 MHz. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this arrangement involves assignments in the following frequency bands.
                

(b) The following frequencies are not involved in this arrangement because of the nature of the services:
                

(c) Assignments proposed in accordance with the railroad industry radio frequency allotment plan along the United States-Canada borders utilized by the Federal Communications Commission and the Department of Transport, respectively, may be excepted from this arrangement at the discretion of the referring agency.

(d) Assignments proposed in any radio service in frequency bands below 470 MHz appropriate to this arrangement, other than those for stations in the Domestic Public (land mobile or fixed) category, may be excepted from this arrangement at the discretion of the referring agency if a base station assignment has been made previously under the terms of this arrangement or prior to its adoption in the same radio service and on the same frequency and in the local area, and provided the basic characteristics of the additional station are sufficiently similar technically to the original assignment to preclude harmful interference to existing stations across the border.

(e) For bands below 470 MHz, the areas which are involved lie between Lines A and B and between Lines C and D, which are described as follows:
                

(f) For all stations using bands between 470 MHz and 1000 MHz; and for any station of a terrestrial service using a band above 1000 MHz, the areas which are involved are as follows:

(1) For a station the antenna of which looks within the 200 deg. sector toward the Canada-United States borders, that area in each country within 35 miles of the borders;

(2) For a station the antenna of which looks within the 160 deg. sector away from the Canada-United States borders, that area in each country within 5 miles of the borders; and

(3) The area in either country within coordination distance as described in Recommendation 1A of the Final Acts of the EARC, Geneva, 1963 of a receiving earth station in the other country which uses the same band.

(g) Proposed assignments in the space radiocommunication services and proposed assignments to stations in frequency bands allocated coequally to space and terrestrial services above 1 GHz are not treated by these arrangements. Such proposed assignments are subject to the regulatory provisions of the International Radio Regulations.

(h) Assignments proposed in the frequency band 806-890 MHz shall be in accordance with the Canada-United States agreement, dated April 7, 1982.

