(a) General. Applications must contain all information requested on the applicable form and any additional information required by the rules in this chapter and any rules pertaining to the specific service for which the application is filed.

(b) Reference to material on file. Questions on application forms that call for specific technical data, or that can be answered yes or no or with another short answer, must be answered on the form. Otherwise, if documents, exhibits, or other lengthy showings already on file with the FCC contain information required in an application, the application may incorporate such information by reference, provided that:

(1) The referenced information has been filed in ULS or, if manually filed outside of ULS, the information comprises more than one “81/2×11” page.

(2) The referenced information is current and accurate in all material respects; and

(3) The application states specifically where the referenced information can actually be found, including:

(i) The station call sign or application file number and its location if the reference is to station files or previously filed applications;

(ii) The title of the proceeding, the docket number, and any legal citations, if the reference is to a docketed proceeding.

(c) Antenna locations. Applications for stations at fixed locations must describe each transmitting antenna site by its geographical coordinates and also by its street address, or by reference to a nearby landmark. Geographical coordinates, referenced to NAD83, must be specified in degrees, minutes, and seconds to the nearest second of latitude and longitude.

(d) Antenna structure registration. Owners of certain antenna structures must notify the Federal Aviation Administration and register with the Commission as required by part 17 of this chapter. Applications proposing the use of one or more new or existing antenna structures must contain the FCC Antenna Structure Registration Number(s) of each structure for which registration is required. To facilitate frequency coordination or for other purposes, the Bureau shall accept for filing an application that does not contain the FCC Antenna Structure Registration Number so long as;

(1) The antenna structure owner has filed an antenna structure registration application (FCC Form 854);

(2) The antenna structure owner has provided local notice and the Commission has posted notification of the proposed construction on its Web site pursuant to §  17.4(c)(3) and (4) of this chapter; and

(3) The antenna structure owner has obtained a Determination of No Hazard to Aircraft Navigation from the Federal Aviation Administration. In such instances, the applicant shall provide the FCC Form 854 File Number on its application. Once the antenna structure owner has obtained the Antenna Structure Registration Number, the applicant shall amend its application to provide the Antenna Structure Registration Number, and the Commission shall not grant the application before the Antenna Structure Registration Number has been provided. If registration is not required, the applicant must provide information in its application sufficient for the Commission to verify this fact.

(e) Environmental concerns. (1) Environmental processing shall be completed pursuant to the process set forth in § 17.4(c) of this chapter for any facilities that use one or more new or existing antenna structures for which a new or amended registration is required by part 17 of this chapter. Environmental review by the Commission must be completed prior to construction.

(2) For applications that propose any facilities that are not subject to the process set forth in § 17.4(c) of this chapter, the applicant is required to indicate at the time its application is filed whether or not a Commission grant of the application for those facilities may have a significant environmental effect as defined by § 1.1307. If the applicant answers affirmatively, an Environmental Assessment, required by § 1.1311 must be filed with the application and environmental review by the Commission must be completed prior to construction.

(f) International coordination. Channel assignments and/or usage under this part are subject to the applicable provisions and requirements of treaties and other international agreements between the United States government and the governments of Canada and Mexico.

(g) Quiet zones. Each applicant is required to comply with the “Quiet Zone” rule (see § 1.924).

(h) Taxpayer Identification Number (TINs). Wireless applicants and licensees, including all attributable owners of auctionable licenses as defined by § 1.2112 of this part, are required to provide their Taxpayer Identification Numbers (TINS) (as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6109) to the Commission, pursuant to the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (DCIA). Under the DCIA, the FCC may use an applicant or licensee's TIN for purposes of collecting and reporting to the Department of the Treasury any delinquent amounts arising out of such person's relationship with the Government. The Commission will not publicly disclose applicant or licensee TINs unless authorized by law, but will assign a “public identification number” to each applicant or licensee registering a TIN. This public identification number will be used for agency purposes other than debt collection.

(i) Unless an exception is set forth elsewhere in this chapter, each applicant must specify an address where the applicant can receive mail delivery by the United States Postal Service. This address will be used by the Commission to serve documents or direct correspondence to the applicant.

