(a) Generally. Periodically, the Commission issues Public Notices in the Wireless Radio Services listing information of public significance. Categories of Public Notice listings are as follows:

(1) Accepted for filing. Acceptance for filing of applications and major amendments thereto.

(2) Actions. Commission actions on pending applications previously listed as accepted for filing.

(3) Environmental considerations. Special environmental considerations as required by Part 1 of this chapter.

(4) Informative listings. Information that the Commission, in its discretion, believes to be of public significance. Such listings do not create any rights to file petitions to deny or other pleadings.

(b) Accepted for filing public notices. The Commission will issue at regular intervals public notices listing applications that have been received by the Commission in a condition acceptable for filing, or which have been returned to an applicant for correction. Any application that has been listed in a public notice as acceptable for filing and is (1) subject to a major amendment, or (2) has been returned as defective or incomplete and resubmitted to the Commission, shall be listed in a subsequent public notice. Acceptance for filing shall not preclude the subsequent dismissal of an application as defective.

(c) Public notice prior to grant. Applications for authorizations, major modifications, major amendments to applications, and substantial assignment or transfer applications for the following categories of stations and services shall be placed on Public Notice as accepted for filing prior to grant:

(1) Wireless Telecommunications Services.

(2) Industrial radiopositioning stations for which frequencies are assigned on an exclusive basis.

(3) Aeronautical enroute stations.

(4) Aeronautical advisory stations.

(5) Airport control tower stations.

(6) Aeronautical fixed stations.

(7) Alaska public fixed stations.

(8) Broadband Radio Service; and

(9) Educational Broadband Service.

(d) No public notice prior to grant. The following types of applications, notices, and other filings need not be placed on Public Notice as accepted for filing prior to grant:

(1) Applications or notifications concerning minor modifications to authorizations or minor amendments to applications.

(2) Applications or notifications concerning non-substantial (pro forma) assignments and transfers.

(3) Consent to an involuntary assignment or transfer under section 310(b) of the Communications Act.
                

(4) Applications for licenses under section 319(c) of the Communications Act.

(5) Requests for extensions of time to complete construction of authorized facilities.

(6) Requests for special temporary authorization not to exceed 30 days where the applicant does not contemplate the filing of an application for regular operation, or not to exceed 60 days pending or after the filing of an application for regular operation.

(7) Requests for emergency authorizations under section 308(a) of the Communications Act.

(8) Any application for temporary authorization under section 101.31(a) of this chapter.

(9) Any application for authorization in the Private Wireless Services.

