(a) Eligibility. (1) 24 GHz licensees may apply to the Commission to partition their licensed geographic service areas to eligible entities and are free to determine the portion of their service areas to be partitioned. 24 GHz licensees may aggregate or disaggregate their licensed spectrum at any time following the grant of a license.

(2) Any existing frequency coordination agreements shall convey with the assignment of the geographic area or spectrum, and shall remain in effect unless new agreements are reached.

(b) Technical standards—(1) Aggregation. There is no limitation on the amount of spectrum that a 24 GHz licensee may aggregate.

(2) Partitioning. In the case of partitioning, applicants and licensees must file FCC Form 603 pursuant to § 1.948 of this chapter and list the partitioned service area on a schedule to the application. The geographic coordinates must be specified in degrees, minutes, and seconds to the nearest second of latitude and longitude and must be based upon the 1983 North American Datum (NAD83).

(3) Disaggregation. Spectrum may be disaggregated in any amount. A licensee need not retain a minimum amount of spectrum.

(4) Combined partitioning and disaggregation. The Commission will consider requests for partial assignment of licenses that propose combinations of partitioning and disaggregation.

(c) License term. The license term for a partitioned license area and for disaggregated spectrum shall be the remainder of the original licensee's license term as provided for in § 101.526.

(d) Construction requirements. Applications requesting approval for partitioning or disaggregation must include a certification by each party stating that one or both parties will satisfy the construction requirement set forth in § 101.529. Failure by a party to meet its respective construction requirement will result in the automatic cancellation of its license without further Commission action.

