(a) Transmitters licensed for operation in Common Carrier services may be concurrently licensed or used for non-common carrier communication purposes. Mobile units may be concurrently licensed or used for non-common carrier communication purposes provided that the transmitter is certificated for use in each service.

(b) Private operational fixed point-to-point microwave stations authorized in this service may communicate with associated operational-fixed stations and fixed receivers and with units of associated stations in the mobile service licensed under Private Radio Service rule parts. In addition, intercommunication is permitted with other licensed stations and with U.S. Government stations in those cases which require cooperation or coordination of activities or when cooperative use arrangements in accordance with ยง 101.135 are contemplated; provided, however, that where communication is desired with stations authorized to operate under the authority of a foreign jurisdiction, prior approval of this Commission must be obtained; And provided further, That the authority under which such other stations operate does not prohibit the intercommunication.

(c) Two or more persons or governmental entities eligible for private operational fixed point-to-point microwave licenses may use the same transmitting equipment under the following terms and conditions:

(1) Each licensee complies with the general operating requirements set out in this part;

(2) Each licensee is eligible for the frequency(ies) on which the facility operates; and

(3) Each licensee must have the ability to access the transmitter(s) that it is authorized to operate under the multiple licensing arrangement.

(d) LMDS subscriber transmissions. LMDS licensees shall not operate transmitters from subscriber locations in the 29.1-29.25 GHz band.

(e) Existing private operational fixed wireless licensees applying to become common carrier wireless licensees shall comply with all provisions of the Communications Act and the Commission's rules. Applicants must take all required filings, including FCC Form 601, and receive all necessary Commission approval prior to operating as a common carrier wireless licensee. The regulatory fee associated with FCC wireless application Form 601 is waived for applicants who are existing private operational fixed licensees seeking common carrier status, provided that such licensees have also complied with all other discontinuance requirements of Title II of the Act. Applicants are responsible for all other Commission regulatory fees.

