(a) As a condition for use of frequencies in this service each licensee is required to:

(1) Engineer the system to be reasonably compatible with adjacent and co-channel operations in the same or adjacent areas on all frequencies; and

(2) Cooperate fully and in good faith to resolve whatever potential interference and transmission security problems may be present in adjacent and co-channel operations.

(b) All harmful interference to other users of co-channel and adjacent channel use in the same or adjacent geographical area are prohibited. In areas where Economic Areas are in close proximity, careful consideration should be given to minimum power requirements and to the location, height, and radiation pattern of the transmitting and receiving antennas. Licensees are expected to cooperate fully in attempting to resolve problems of potential interference before bringing the matter to the attention of the Commission.
                                    

(c) Licensee shall coordinate their facilities whenever the facilities have optical line-of-sight into other licensees' areas or are within the same geographic area. Licensees are encouraged to develop operational agreements with relevant licensees in the same or adjacent areas. Incumbent SMSA licensee(s) shall retain exclusive rights to its channel(s) within its SMSA and must be protected.

(d) Licensees shall comply with the appropriate coordination agreements between the United States and Canada and the United States and Mexico concerning cross-border sharing and use of the 24 GHz bands which may require using channels pairs in accordance with the table in ยง 101.147(r)(9).

(e) The Commission recommends that coordination is not necessary if the power flux density (pfd) at the boundary of the relevant adjacent area is lower than -114 dBW/m2 in any 1 MHz. This value can be changed and agreed upon by both coordinating parties. Licensees should be able to deploy with a pfd up to -94 dBW/m2 in any 1 MHz at the boundary of the relevant adjacent area without negatively affecting the successful operations of the adjacent area licensee.

