(a) Unless specified otherwise, transmitters used in the private operational fixed and common carrier fixed point-to-point microwave and point-to-multipoint services under this part must be a type that has been verified for compliance.

(b) Any manufacturer of a transmitter to be produced for use under the rules of this part may request certification or obtain verification by following the applicable procedures set forth in part 2 of this chapter.

(c) Certification for an individual transmitter may also be requested by an applicant for a station authorization, pursuant to the procedures set forth in part 2 of this chapter.

(d) A transmitter presently shown on an instrument of authorization, which operates on an assigned frequency in the 890-940 MHz band and has not been certificated, may continue to be used by the licensee without certification provided such transmitter continues otherwise to comply with the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission.

(e) Certification or verification is not required for portable transmitters operating with peak output power not greater than 250 mW. If operation of such equipment causes harmful interference the FCC may, at its discretion, require the licensee to take such corrective action as is necessary to eliminate the interference.

(f) After July 15, 1996, the manufacturer (except for export) or importation of equipment employing digital modulation techniques in the 3700-4200, 5925-6425, 6525-6875, 10,550-10,680 and 10,700-11,700 MHz bands must meet the minimum payload capacity requirements of ยง 101.141.

(g) After April 1, 2005, the manufacture (except for export) or importation of equipment for operation in the 21,200-23,600 MHz band must meet:

(1) The 0.001% frequency tolerance requirement for digital systems in ยง 101.107(a) or the 0.03-0.003% frequency tolerance for analog sytems; and

(2) For equipment employing digital modulation techniques, the minimum bit rate requirements of ยง 101.141(a).

(h) 71,000-76,000 MHz; 81,000-86,000 MHz. For equipment employing digital modulation techniques, the minimum bit rate requirement is 0.125 bit per second per Hz.

(i) 92,000-94,000 MHz; 94,100-95,000 MHz. For equipment employing digital modulation techniques, the minimum bit rate requirement is 1.0 bit per second per Hz.

