Fixed Microwave Services (FMS) in the 1850-1990 MHz, 2110-2150 MHz, and 2160-2200 MHz bands have been allocated for use by emerging technology (ET) services, including Personal Communications Services (PCS), Advanced Wireless Services (AWS), and Mobile Satellite Services (MSS). The rules in this section provide for a transition period during which ET licensees may relocate existing FMS licensees using these frequencies to other media or other fixed channels, including those in other microwave bands.

(a) ET licensees may negotiate with FMS licensees authorized to use frequencies in the 1850-1990 MHz, 2110-2150 MHz, and 2160-2200 MHz bands, for the purpose of agreeing to terms under which the FMS licensees would:

(1) Relocate their operations to other fixed microwave bands or other media; or alternatively

(2) Accept a sharing arrangement with the ET licensee that may result in an otherwise impermissible level of interference to the FMS operations.

(b)-(c) [Reserved]

(d) Relocation of FMS licensees in the 2110-2150 and 2160-2200 MHz band will be subject to mandatory negotiations only. Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, mandatory negotiation periods are defined as follows:

(1) Non-public safety incumbents will have a two-year mandatory negotiation period; and

(2) Public safety incumbents will have a three-year mandatory negotiation period.

(e) Relocation of FMS licensees by Mobile-Satellite Service (MSS) licensees, including MSS licensees providing Ancillary Terrestrial Component (ATC) service, will be subject to mandatory negotiations only. Mandatory negotiation periods that are triggered in the first instance by MSS/ATC licensees are defined as follows:
                                    

(1) The mandatory negotiation period for non-public safety incumbents will end December 8, 2004.

(2) The mandatory negotiation period for public safety incumbents will end December 8, 2005.

(f) AWS licensees operating in the 1910-1920 MHz and 2175-2180 MHz bands will follow the requirements and procedures set forth in ET Docket No. 00-258 and WT Docket No. 04-356.

(g) If no agreement is reached during the mandatory negotiation period, an ET licensee may initiate involuntary relocation procedures. Under involuntary relocation, the incumbent is required to relocate, provided that the ET licensee meets the conditions of ยง 101.75.

