(a)(1) The holder of an EA authorization to provide service pursuant to the competitive bidding process and any incumbent licensee of rectangular service areas in the 38.6-40.0 GHz band may enter into agreements with eligible parties to partition any portion of its service area as defined by the partitioner and partitionee. Alternatively, licensees may enter into agreements or contracts to disaggregate any portion of spectrum, provided acquired spectrum is disaggregated according to frequency pairs.

(2)(i) Contracts must be filed with the Commission within 30 days of the date that such agreements are reached.

(ii) The contracts must include descriptions of the areas being partitioned or spectrum disaggregated. The partitioned service area shall be defined by coordinate points at every 3 seconds along the partitioned service area unless an FCC recognized service area is utilized (i.e., Metropolitan Service Area or Rural Service Area) or county lines are followed. If geographic coordinate points are used, they must be specified in degrees, minutes, and seconds to the nearest second of latitude and longitude and must be based upon the 1983 North American Datum (NAD83). In the case where an FCC recognized service area or county lines are utilized, applicants need only list the specific area(s) (through use of FCC designations or county names) that constitute the partitioned area.
                                    

(b) The eligibility requirements applicable to EA authorization holders also apply to those individuals and entities seeking partitioned or disaggregated spectrum authorizations.

(c) Subsequent to issuance of the authorization for a partitioned service area, the partitioned area will be treated as a separate protected service area.

(d)(1) When any area within an EA becomes a partitioned service area, the remaining counties and geopolitical subdivision within that EA will be subsequently treated and classified as a partitioned service area.

(2) At the time an EA is partitioned, the Commission shall cancel the EA authorization initially issued and issue a partitioned service area authorization to the former EA authorization holder.

(e) At the time a BTA is partitioned, the Commission shall cancel the BTA authorization initially issued and issue a partitioned service area authorization to the former BTA authorization holder.

(f) The duties and responsibilities imposed upon EA authorization holders in this part, apply to those licensees obtaining authorizations by partitioning or spectrum disaggregation.

(g) The build-out requirements for the partitioned service area or disaggregated spectrum shall be the same as applied to the EA authorization holder.

(h) The license term for the partitioned service area or disaggregated spectrum shall be the remainder of the period that would apply to the EA authorization holder.

(i) Licensees, including those using bidding credits in a competitive bidding procedure, shall have the authority to partition service areas or disaggregate spectrum.

