(a) Frequencies in the following bands are available for assignment to television pickup and television non-broadcast pickup stations in this service:
                                    

(b) Communications common carriers in the Local Television Transmission Service may be assigned frequencies listed in §§ 74.602(a), 78.18(a)(6), and 78.18(a)(7) of this chapter to provide service to television broadcast stations, television broadcast network-entities, cable system operators, and cable network-entities. Frequency availability is subject to the provisions of § 74.604 of this chapter and the use of the facility is limited to the permissible uses described in §§ 74.631 and 78.11 of this chapter. Operations on these frequencies are subject to the technical provisions of part 74, subpart F, and part 78, subpart D of this chapter.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Frequencies in the following bands are available for assignment to television STL stations in this service:
                                    

(e) 6425 to 6525 MHz—Mobile Only. Paired and un-paired operations permitted. Use of this spectrum for direct delivery of video programs to the general public or for multi-channel cable distribution is not permitted. This band is co-equally shared with mobile stations licensed pursuant to parts 74 and 78 of this chapter. The following channel plans apply.

(1) 1 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels.

(2) 8 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels.

(3) 25 MHz maximum authorized bandwidth channels.

(f) The frequency 27.255 MHz in the 27.23-27.28 MHz band is allocated for assignment to microwave auxiliary stations in this service on a shared basis with other radio services. Assignments to stations on this frequency will not be protected from such interference as may be experienced from the emissions of industrial, scientific and medical equipment operating on 27.12 MHz in accordance with § 2.106 of this chapter.

