(a) Frequency coordination. All EA licensees are required to coordinate their frequency usage with co-channel adjacent area licensees and all other affected parties.

(b) EA licensees are prohibited from exceeding a signal strength of 40 dBµV/m at their service area boundaries, unless a higher signal strength is agreed to by all affected co-channel, adjacent area licensees.

(c) EA licensees are prohibited from exceeding a signal strength of 40 dBµV/m at incumbent licensees' 40.2 kilometer (25-mile) radius composite contour specified in § 101.1331(c).

(d) In general, licensees shall comply with the appropriate coordination agreements between the United States and Canada and the United States and Mexico concerning cross-border sharing and use of the applicable MAS frequencies.

(1) Canada—932.0-932.25 MHz and 941.0-941.25 MHz. (i) Within Lines A, B, C, and D, as defined in § 1.928(e) of this chapter, along the U.S./Canada border, U.S. stations operating in the 932.0-932.25 MHz and 941.0-941.25 MHz bands are on a secondary basis and may operate provided that they shall not transmit a power flux density (PFD) at the border greater than −100 dBW/m2 nor −94 dBW/m2, respectively. The U.S. has full use of the frequencies in these regions up to the border in the bands 932.25-932.50 MHz and 941.25-941.50 MHz, and Canadian stations may operate on a secondary basis provided they do not exceed the respective PFDs shown above. PFD can be determined using the following formula: PFD (dBW/m2) = 10 log [EIRP/4π(D2], where EIRP is in watts, D is in meters, and the power is relative to an isotropic radiator. The technical parameters are also limited by tables 1 and 2:

(ii) Maximum antenna height above average terrain for master stations operating at a maximum power shall not exceed 150 meters. Above 150 meters, the power of master stations shall be in accordance with following table:

(2) Canada—928-929 MHz and 952-960 MHz. Between Lines A and B and between Lines C and D, as defined in § 1.928(e) of this chapter, along the U.S./Canada border, U.S. stations operating in the 928.50-928.75 MHz and 952.50-952.75 MHz bands are on an unprotected basis and may operate provided that they shall not transmit a power flux density (PFD) at or beyond the border greater than −100 dBW/m2. The U.S. has full use of the frequencies in these regions up to the border in the bands 928.25-928.50 MHz and 952.25-952.50 MHz, and Canadian stations may operate on an unprotected basis provided they do not exceed the PFD above. Frequencies in the bands 928.00-928.25 MHz, 928.75-929.00 MHz, 952.00-952.25 MHz, and 952.75-952.85 MHz are available for use on a coordinated, first-in-time, shared basis subject to protecting grandfathered stations. New stations must provide a minimum of 145 km (90 miles) separation or alternatively limit the actual PFD of the proposed station to −100 dBW/m2, at the existing co-channel master stations of the other country, or as mutually agreed upon on a case-by-case basis. Coordination is not required if the PFD at the border is lower than −100 dBW/m2. The technical criteria are also limited by the following:
                                    

(3) Mexico. Within 113 kilometers of the U.S./Mexico border, U.S. stations operating in the 932.0-932.25 MHz and 941.0-941.25 MHz bands are on a secondary basis (non-interference to Mexican primary licensees) and may operate provided that they shall not transmit a power flux density (PFD) at or beyond the border greater than −100 dBW/m2. Upon notification from the Commission, U.S. licensees must take proper measures to eliminate any harmful interference caused to Mexican primary assignments. The U.S. has full use of the frequencies in these regions up to the border in the bands 932.25-932.50 MHz and 941.25-941.50 MHz, and Mexican stations may operate on a secondary basis (non-interference to U.S. primary licensees) provided they do not exceed the PFD shown above. Stations using the 932-932.5 MHz band shall be limited to the maximum effective isotropic radiated power of 50 watts (17 dBW). Stations using the 941-941.5 MHz band shall meet the limits in the following table:

