These limitations are necessary to minimize the probability of harmful interference to reception in the bands 2655-2690 MHz, 5925-7075 MHz, and 12.7-13.25 GHz on board geostationary-space stations in the fixed-satellite service.

(a) Stations authorized prior to July 1, 1976 in the band 2655-2690 MHz, which exceed the power levels in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are permitted to operate indefinitely, provided that the operation of such stations does not result in harmful interference to reception in these bands on board geostationary space stations.

(b) 2655 to 2690 MHz and 5925 to 7075 MHz. No directional transmitting antenna utilized by a fixed station operating in these bands (may be aimed within 2 degrees of the geostationary-satellite orbit, taking into account atmospheric refraction. However, exception may be made in unusual circumstances upon a showing that there is no reasonable alternative to the transmission path proposed. If there is no evidence that such exception would cause possible harmful interference to an authorized satellite system, said transmission path may be authorized on waiver basis where the maximum value of the equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) does not exceed:

(1) +47 dBW for any antenna beam directed within 0.5 degrees of the stationary satellite orbit; or

(2) +47 to +55 dBW, on a linear decibel scale (8 dB per degree) for any antenna beam directed between 0.5 degrees and 1.5 degrees of the stationary orbit.

(c) 12.7 to 13.25 GHz. No directional transmitting antenna utilized by a fixed station operating in this band may be aimed within 1.5 degrees of the geostationary-satellite orbit, taking into account atmospheric refraction. However, exception may be made in unusual circumstances upon a showing that there is no reasonable alternative to the transmission path proposed. If there is no evidence that such exception would cause possible harmful interference to an authorized satellite system, said transmission path may be authorized on waiver basis where the maximum value of the equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) does not exceed +45 dBW for any antenna beam directed within 1.5 degrees of the stationary satellite orbit.

(d) Methods for calculating the azimuths to be avoided may be found in: CCIR Report No. 393 (Green Books), New Delhi, 1970; in “Radio-Relay Antenna Pointing for controlled Interference With Geostationary-Satellites” by C. W. Lundgren and A. S. May, Bell System Technical Journal, Vol. 48, No. 10, pp. 3387-3422, December 1969; and in “Geostationary Orbit Avoidance Computer Program” by Richard G. Gould, Common Carrier Bureau Report CC-7201, FCC, Washington, DC, 1972. This latter report is available through the National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22151, in printed form (PB-211 500) or source card deck (PB-211 501).

