(a) An EAS Encoder used for generating the EAS codes and the Attention Signal must be Certified in accordance with the procedures in part 2, subpart J, of this chapter. The data and information submitted must show the capability of the equipment to meet the requirements of this part as well as the requirements contained in part 15 of this chapter for digital devices.

(b) Decoders used for the detection of the EAS codes and receiving the Attention Signal must be Certified in accordance with the procedures in part 2, subpart J, of this chapter. The data and information submitted must show the capability of the equipment to meet the requirements of this part as well as the requirements contained in part 15 of this chapter for digital devices.

(c) The functions of the EAS decoder, Attention Signal generator and receiver, and the EAS encoder specified in §§ 11.31, 11.32 and 11.33 may be combined and Certified as a single unit provided that the unit complies with all specifications in this rule section.

(d) Manufacturers must include instructions and information on how to install, operate and program an EAS Encoder, EAS Decoder, or combined unit and a list of all State and county ANSI numbers with each unit sold or marketed in the U.S.

(e) Waiver requests of the Certification requirements for EAS Encoders or EAS Decoders which are constructed for use by an EAS Participant, but are not offered for sale will be considered on an individual basis in accordance with part 1, subpart G, of this chapter.

(f) Modifications to existing authorized EAS decoders, encoders or combined units necessary to implement the new EAS codes specified in § 11.31 and to implement the selective displaying and logging feature specified in § 11.33(a)(4) will be considered Class I permissive changes that do not require a new application for and grant of equipment certification under part 2, subpart J of this chapter.

(g) All existing and new models of EAS encoders, decoders and combined units manufactured after August 1, 2003 must be capable of generating and detecting the new EAS codes specified in § 11.31 in order to be certified under part 2, subpart J of this chapter. All existing and new models of EAS decoders and combined units manufactured after August 1, 2003 must have the selective displaying and logging capability specified in § 11.33(a)(4) in order to be certified under part 2, subpart J of this chapter.

