(a) EAS Encoders must at a minimum be capable of encoding the EAS protocol described in § 11.31 and providing the EAS code transmission requirements described in § 11.51. EAS encoders must additionally provide the following minimum specifications:

(1) Encoder programming. Access to encoder programming shall be protected by a lock or other security measures and be configured so that authorized personnel can readily select and program the EAS Encoder with Originator, Event and Location codes for either manual or automatic operation.

(2) Inputs. The encoder shall have at least one input port used for audio messages and at least one input port used for data messages.

(3) Outputs. The encoder shall have at least one audio output port and at least one data output port.

(4) Calibration. EAS Encoders must provide a means to comply with the modulation levels required in § 11.51(f).

(5) Day-Hour-Minute and Identification Stamps. The encoder shall affix the JJJHHMM and LLLLLLLL codes automatically to all initial messages.

(6) Program Data Retention. Program data and codes shall be retained even with the power removed.

(7) Indicator. An aural or visible means that it activated when the Preamble is sent and deactivated at the End of Message code.
              

(8) Spurious Response. All frequency components outside 200 to 4000 Hz shall be attenuated by 40 dB or more with respect to the output levels of the mark or space frequencies.

(9) Attention Signal generator. The encoder must provide an attention signal that complies with the following:

(i) Tone Frequencies. The audio tones shall have fundamental frequencies of 853 and 960 Hz and not vary over ±0.5 Hz.

(ii) Harmonic Distortion. The total harmonic distortion of each of the audio tones may not exceed 5% at the encoder output terminals.

(iii) Minimum Level of Output. The encoder shall have an output level capability of at least +8 dBm into a 600 Ohm load impedance at each audio tone. A means shall be provided to permit individual activation of the two tones for calibration of associated systems.

(iv) Time Period for Transmission of Tones. The encoder shall have timing circuitry that automatically generates the two tones simultaneously for a time period of 8 seconds.

(v) Inadvertent activation. The switch used for initiating the automatic generation of the simultaneous tones shall be protected to prevent accidental operation.

(vi) Indicator Display. The encoder shall be provided with a visual and/or aural indicator which clearly shows that the Attention Signal is activated.

(b) Operating Temperature and Humidity. Encoders shall have the ability to operate with the above specifications within an ambient temperature range of 0 to +50 degrees C and a range of relative humidity of up to 95%.

(c) Primary Supply Voltage Variation. Encoders shall be capable of complying with the requirements of this section during a variation in primary supply voltage of 85 percent to 115 percent of its rated value.

(d) Testing Encoder Units. Encoders not covered by § 11.34(e) of this part shall be tested in a 10 V/m minimum RF field at an AM broadcast frequency and a 0.5 V/m minimum RF field at an FM or TV broadcast frequency to simulate actual working conditions.

