(a) During activation of the National level EAS, communications common carriers which have facilities available in place may, without charge, connect:

(1) An originating source from the nearest service area to a selected Test Center and then to the EAS Participant for the duration of the emergency, provided an Emergency Action Notification is issued by the White House and the originating source has a local channel from the originating point to the nearest service area.

(2) An independent broadcast station to the radio and television broadcast networks and any other EAS Participant provided the station has in service a local channel from the station's studio or transmitter directly to the broadcast source.

(b) Upon receipt of the Emergency Action Termination, the common carriers shall disconnect the originating source and the participating independent stations and restore the networks and other EAS Participants to their original configurations.

(c) During a National level EAS Test, common carriers which have facilities in place may, without charge, connect an originating source from the nearest exchange to a selected Test Center and then to any EAS Participant. Independent stations will not be connected during the test unless authorized by the FCC. Upon test termination, EAS Participants shall be restored to their original configurations.

(d) A common carrier rendering free service shall file with the FCC, on or before July 31st and January 31st of each year, reports covering the six months ending on June 30th and December 31st respectively. These reports shall state what free service was rendered under this rule and the charges in dollars which would have accrued to the carrier for this service if charges had been collected at the published tariff rates if such carriers are required to file tariffs.

