(a) Analog and digital broadcast stations must transmit, either automatically or manually, national level EAS messages and required tests by sending the EAS header codes, Attention Signal, emergency message and End of Message (EOM) codes using the EAS Protocol. The Attention Signal must precede any emergency audio message.

(b) When relaying EAS messages, EAS Participants may transmit only the EAS header codes and the EOM code without the Attention Signal and emergency message for State and local emergencies. Pauses in video programming before EAS message transmission should not cause television receivers to mute EAS audio messages. No Attention Signal is required for EAS messages that do not contain audio programming, such as a Required Weekly Test.

(c) All analog and digital radio and television stations shall transmit EAS messages in the main audio channel. All DAB stations shall also transmit EAS messages on all audio streams. All DTV broadcast stations shall also transmit EAS messages on all program streams.

(d) Analog and digital television broadcast stations shall transmit a visual message containing the Originator, Event, Location and the valid time period of an EAS message. Effective June 30, 2012, visual messages derived from CAP-formatted EAS messages shall contain the Originator, Event, Location and the valid time period of the message and shall be constructed in accordance with § 3.6 of the “ECIG Recommendations for a CAP EAS Implementation Guide, Version 1.0” (May 17, 2010), except that if the EAS Participant has deployed an Intermediary Device to meet its CAP-related obligations, this requirement shall be effective June 30, 2015, and until such date shall be subject to the general requirement to transmit a visual message containing the Originator, Event, Location and the valid time period of the EAS message. If the message is a video crawl, it shall be displayed at the top of the television screen or where it will not interfere with other visual messages.

(e) Analog class D non-commercial educational FM stations as defined in § 73.506 of this chapter, digital class D non-commercial educational FM stations, analog Low Power FM (LPFM) stations as defined in §§ 73.811 and 73.853 of this chapter, digital LPFM stations, analog low power TV (LPTV) stations as defined in § 74.701(f) of this chapter, and digital LPTV stations as defined in § 74.701(k) of this chapter are not required to have equipment capable of generating the EAS codes and Attention Signal specified in § 11.31.

(f) Analog and digital broadcast station equipment generating the EAS codes and the Attention Signal shall modulate a broadcast station transmitter so that the signal broadcast to other EAS Participants alerts them that the EAS is being activated or tested at the National, State or Local Area level. The minimum level of modulation for EAS codes, measured at peak modulation levels using the internal calibration output required in § 11.32(a)(4), shall modulate the transmitter at the maximum possible level, but in no case less than 50% of full channel modulation limits. Measured at peak modulation levels, each of the Attention Signal tones shall be calibrated separately to modulate the transmitter at no less than 40%. These two calibrated modulation levels shall have values that are within 1 dB of each other.

(g) Analog cable systems and digital cable systems with fewer than 5,000 subscribers per headend and wireline video systems and wireless cable systems with fewer than 5,000 subscribers shall transmit EAS audio messages in the same order specified in paragraph (a) of this section on at least one channel. The Attention signal may be produced from a storage device. Additionally, these analog cable systems, digital cable systems, and wireless cable systems:

(1) Must install, operate, and maintain equipment capable of generating the EAS codes. The modulation levels for the EAS codes and Attention Signal for analog cable systems shall comply with the aural signal requirements in § 76.605 of this chapter,

(2) Must provide a video interruption and an audio alert message on all channels. The audio alert message must state which channel is carrying the EAS video and audio message,

(3) Shall transmit a visual EAS message on at least one channel. The visual message shall contain the Originator, Event, Location, and the valid time period of the EAS message. Effective June 30, 2012, visual messages derived from CAP-formatted EAS messages shall contain the Originator, Event, Location and the valid time period of the message and shall be constructed in accordance with § 3.6 of the “ECIG Recommendations for a CAP EAS Implementation Guide, Version 1.0” (May 17, 2010), except that if the EAS Participant has deployed an Intermediary Device to meet its CAP-related obligations, this requirement shall be effective June 30, 2015, and until such date shall be subject to the general requirement to transmit a visual message containing the Originator, Event, Location and the valid time period of the EAS message. If the visual message is a video crawl, it shall be displayed at the top of the subscriber's television screen or where it will not interfere with other visual messages.

(4) May elect not to interrupt EAS messages from broadcast stations based upon a written agreement between all concerned. Further, analog cable systems, digital cable systems, and wireless cable systems may elect not to interrupt the programming of a broadcast station carrying news or weather related emergency information with state and local EAS messages based on a written agreement between all parties.

(5) Wireless cable systems and digital cable systems with a requirement to carry the audio and video EAS message on at least one channel and a requirement to provide video interrupt and an audio alert message on all other channels stating which channel is carrying the audio and video EAS message, may comply by using a means on all programmed channels that automatically tunes the subscriber's set-top box to a pre-designated channel which carries the required audio and video EAS messages.

(h) Analog cable systems and digital cable systems with 10,000 or more subscribers; analog cable and digital cable systems serving 5,000 or more, but less than 10,000 subscribers per headend; and wireline video systems and wireless cable systems with 5,000 or more subscribers shall transmit EAS audio messages in the same order specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The Attention signal may be produced from a storage device. Additionally, these analog cable systems, digital cable systems, and wireless cable systems:

(1) Must install, operate, and maintain equipment capable of generating the EAS codes. The modulation levels for the EAS codes and Attention Signal for analog cable systems shall comply with the aural signal requirements in § 76.605 of this chapter. This will provide sufficient signal levels to operate subscriber television and radio receivers equipped with EAS decoders and to audibly alert subscribers. Wireless cable systems and digital cable systems shall also provide sufficient signal levels to operate subscriber television and radio receivers equipped with EAS decoders and to audibly alert subscribers.

(2) Shall transmit the EAS audio message required in paragraph (a) of this section on all downstream channels.

(3) Shall transmit the EAS visual message on all downstream channels. The visual message shall contain the Originator, Event, Location, and the valid time period of the EAS message. Effective June 30, 2012, visual messages derived from CAP-formatted EAS messages shall contain the Originator, Event, Location and the valid time period of the message and shall be constructed in accordance with § 3.6 of the “ECIG Recommendations for a CAP EAS Implementation Guide, Version 1.0” (May 17, 2010), except that if the EAS Participant has deployed an Intermediary Device to meet its CAP-related obligations, this requirement shall be effective June 30, 2015, and until such date shall be subject to the general requirement to transmit a visual message containing the Originator, Event, Location and the valid time period of the EAS message. If the visual message is a video crawl, it shall be displayed at the top of the subscriber's television screen or where it will not interfere with other visual messages.

(4) May elect not to interrupt EAS messages from broadcast stations based upon a written agreement between all concerned. Further, analog cable systems, digital cable systems, and wireless cable systems may elect not to interrupt the programming of a broadcast station carrying news or weather related emergency information with state and local EAS messages based on a written agreement between all parties.

(5) Wireless cable systems and digital cable systems with a requirement to carry the audio and video EAS message on all downstream channels may comply by using a means on all programmed channels that automatically tunes the subscriber's set-top box to a pre-designated channel which carries the required audio and video EAS messages.

(i) SDARS licensees shall transmit national audio EAS messages on all channels in the same order specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) SDARS licensees must install, operate, and maintain equipment capable of generating the EAS codes.

(2) SDARS licensees may determine the distribution methods they will use to comply with this requirement.

(j) DBS providers shall transmit national audio and visual EAS messages on all channels in the same order specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) DBS providers must install, operate, and maintain equipment capable of generating the EAS codes.

(2) The visual message shall contain the Originator, Event, Location, and the valid time period of the EAS message. Effective June 30, 2012, visual messages derived from CAP-formatted EAS messages shall contain the Originator, Event, Location and the valid time period of the message and shall be constructed in accordance with § 3.6 of the “ECIG Recommendations for a CAP EAS Implementation Guide, Version 1.0” (May 17, 2010), except that if the EAS Participant has deployed an Intermediary Device to meet its CAP-related obligations, this requirement shall be effective June 30, 2015, and until such date shall be subject to the general requirement to transmit a visual message containing the Originator, Event, Location and the valid time period of the EAS message. If the visual message is a video crawl, it shall be displayed at the top of the subscriber's television screen or where it will not interfere with other visual messages.

(3) DBS providers may determine the distribution methods they will use to comply with this requirement. Such methods may include distributing the EAS message on all channels, using a means to automatically tune the subscriber's set-top box to a pre-designated channel which carries the required audio and video EAS messages, and/or passing through the EAS message provided by programmers and/or local channels (where applicable).

(k) If manual interrupt is used as authorized in paragraph (m) of this section, EAS Encoders must be located so that EAS Participant staff, at normal duty locations, can initiate the EAS code and Attention Signal transmission.

(l) EAS Participants that are co-owned and co-located with a combined studio or control facility, (such as an AM and FM licensed to the same entity and at the same location or a cable headend serving more than one system) may provide the EAS transmitting requirements contained in this section for the combined stations or systems with one EAS Encoder. The requirements of § 11.32 must be met by the combined facility.

(m) EAS Participants are required to transmit all received EAS messages in which the header code contains the Event codes for Emergency Action Notification (EAN) and Required Monthly Test (RMT), and when the accompanying location codes include their State or State/county. These EAS messages shall be retransmitted unchanged except for the LLLLLLLL-code which identifies the EAS Participant retransmitting the message. See § 11.31(c). If an EAS source originates an EAS message with the Event codes in this paragraph, it must include the location codes for the State and counties in its service area. When transmitting the required weekly test, EAS Participants shall use the event code RWT. The location codes are the state and county for the broadcast station city of license or system community or city. Other location codes may be included upon approval of station or system management. EAS messages may be transmitted automatically or manually.

(1) Automatic interrupt of programming and transmission of EAS messages are required when facilities are unattended. Automatic transmissions must include a permanent record that contains at a minimum the following information: Originator, Event, Location and valid time period of the message. The decoder performs the functions necessary to determine which EAS messages are automatically transmitted by the encoder.

(2) Manual interrupt of programming and transmission of EAS messages may be used. EAS messages with the EAN Event code must be transmitted immediately and Monthly EAS test messages within 60 minutes. All actions must be logged and include the minimum information required for EAS video messages.

(n) EAS Participants may employ a minimum delay feature, not to exceed 15 minutes, for automatic interruption of EAS codes. However, this may not be used for the EAN event which must be transmitted immediately. The delay time for an RMT message may not exceed 60 minutes.

(o) Either manual or automatic operation of EAS equipment may be used by EAS Participants that use remote control. If manual operation is used, an EAS decoder must be located at the remote control location and it must directly monitor the signals of the two assigned EAS sources. If direct monitoring of the assigned EAS sources is not possible at the remote location, automatic operation is required. If automatic operation is used, the remote control location may be used to override the transmission of an EAS alert. EAS Participants may change back and forth between automatic and manual operation.

(p) The standard required in this section is incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Federal Communications Commission must publish notice of change in the Federal Register and the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at the Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC (Reference Information Center) and is available from the source indicated below. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030 or go to http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
              

(1) The following standard is available from the EAS-CAP Industry Group (ECIG), 21010 Southbank Street, #365, Sterling, VA, 20165, go to http://www.eas-cap.org.

(i) “ECIG Recommendations for a CAP EAS Implementation Guide, Version 1.0” (May 17, 2010).

(ii) [Reserved]

