(a) EAS Participants shall conduct tests at regular intervals, as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. Additional tests may be performed anytime. EAS activations and special tests may be performed in lieu of required tests as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. All tests will conform with the procedures in the EAS Operating Handbook.

(1) Required Monthly Tests of the EAS header codes, Attention Signal, Test Script and EOM code.

(i) Tests in odd numbered months shall occur between 8:30 a.m. and local sunset. Tests in even numbered months shall occur between local sunset and 8:30 a.m. They will originate from Local or State Primary sources. The time and script content will be developed by State Emergency Communications Committees in cooperation with affected EAS Participants. Script content may be in the primary language of the EAS Participant. These monthly tests must be transmitted within 60 minutes of receipt by EAS Participants in an EAS Local Area or State. Analog and digital class D non-commercial educational FM and analog and digital LPTV stations are required to transmit only the test script.

(ii) Effective May 31, 2007, DBS providers must comply with this section by monitoring a state or local primary source to participate in testing. Tests should be performed on 10% of all channels monthly (excluding local-into-local channels for which the monthly transmission tests are passed through by the DBS provider), with channels tested varying from month to month, so that over the course of a given year, 100% of all channels are tested.

(2) Required Weekly Tests:

(i) EAS Header Codes and EOM Codes:

(A) Analog and digital AM, FM, and TV broadcast stations must conduct tests of the EAS header and EOM codes at least once a week at random days and times. Effective December 31, 2006, DAB stations must conduct these tests on all audio streams. Effective December 31, 2006, DTV stations must conduct these tests on all program streams.

(B) Analog cable systems and digital cable systems with 5,000 or more subscribers per headend and wireless cable systems with 5,000 or more subscribers must conduct tests of the EAS Header and EOM Codes at least once a week at random days and times on all programmed channels.

(C) Analog cable systems and digital cable systems serving fewer than 5,000 subscribers per headend and wireless cable systems with fewer than 5,000 subscribers must conduct tests of the EAS Header and EOM Codes at least once a week at random days and times on at least one programmed channel.

(D) SDARS providers must conduct tests of the EAS Header and EOM codes at least once a week at random days and times on all channels.

(ii) DBS providers, analog and digital class D non-commercial educational FM stations, and analog and digital LPTV stations are not required to transmit this test but must log receipt, as specified in §§ 11.35(a) and 11.54(b)(13).

(iii) The EAS weekly test is not required during the week that a monthly test is conducted.

(iv) EAS Participants are not required to transmit a video message when transmitting the required weekly test.

(3) National tests. (i) All EAS Participants shall participate in national tests as scheduled by the Commission in consultation with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Such tests will consist of the delivery by FEMA to PEP/NP stations of a coded EAS message, including EAS header codes, Attention Signal, Test Script, and EOM code. All other EAS Participants will then be required to relay that EAS message. The coded message shall utilize EAS test codes as designated by the Commission's rules.

(ii) A national test shall replace the required weekly and monthly tests for all EAS Participants, as set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, in the week and month in which it occurs.
                                    

(iii) Notice shall be provided to EAS Participants by the Commission at least two months prior to the conduct of any such national test.

(iv) Test results as required by the Commission shall be logged by all EAS Participants and shall be provided to the Commission's Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau within forty five (45) days following the test.

(4) EAS activations and special tests. The EAS may be activated for emergencies or special tests at the State or Local Area level by an EAS Participant instead of the monthly or weekly tests required by this section. To substitute for a monthly test, activation must include transmission of the EAS header codes, Attention Signal, emergency message and EOM code and comply with the visual message requirements in § 11.51. To substitute for the weekly test of the EAS header codes and EOM codes in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, activation must include transmission of the EAS header and EOM codes. Analog and digital television broadcast stations, analog cable systems, digital cable systems, wireless cable systems, and DBS providers shall comply with the aural and visual message requirements in § 11.51. Special EAS tests at the State and Local Area levels may be conducted on daily basis following procedures in State and Local Area EAS plans.

(b) Entries shall be made in EAS Participant records, as specified in §§ 11.35(a) and 11.54(b)(13).

