(a) Each application to renew a First Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, Second Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, or Third Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate must be made on FCC Form 605. The application must be accompanied by the appropriate fee and submitted in accordance with ยง 1.913 of this chapter.

(b) If a license expires, application for renewal may be made during a grace period of five years after the expiration date without having to retake the required examinations. The application must be accompanied by the required fee and submitted in accordance with ยง 1.913 of this chapter. During the grace period, the expired license is not valid. A license renewed during the grace period will be effective as of the date of the renewal. Licensees who fail to renew their license within the grace period must apply for a new license and take the required examination(s).

(c) Each application involving a change in operator class must be filed on FCC Form 605. Each application for a commercial operator license involving a change in operator class must be accompanied by the required fee, if any, and submitted in accordance with ยง 1.913 of this chapter. The application must include an original PPC(s) from a COLEM(s) showing that the applicant has passed the necessary examinations element(s) within the previous 365 days when the applicant files the application. If a COLEM files the application electronically on behalf of the applicant an original PPC(s) is not required. However, the COLEM must keep the PPC(s) on file for a period of 1 year.

(d) Provided that a person's commercial radio operator license was not revoked, or suspended, and is not the subject of an ongoing suspension proceeding, a person holding a General Radiotelephone Operator License, Marine Radio Operator Permit, First Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, Second Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, Third Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate, GMDSS Radio Operator's License, Restricted GMDSS Radio Operator's License, GMDSS Radio Maintainer's License, or GMDSS Radio Operator/Maintainer license, who has an application for another commercial radio operator license which has not yet been acted upon pending at the FCC and who holds a PPC(s) indicating that he or she passed the necessary examination(s) within the previous 365 days, is authorized to exercise the rights and privileges of the license for which the application is filed. This temporary conditional operating authority is valid for a period of 90 days from the date the application is received. This temporary conditional operating authority does not relieve the licensee of the obligation to comply with the certification requirements of the Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping (STCW) Convention. The FCC, in its discretion, may cancel this temporary conditional operating authority without a hearing.

(e) An applicant will be given credit for an examination element as specified below:

(1) An unexpired (or within the grace period) FCC-issued commercial radio operator license: The written examination and telegraphy Element(s) required to obtain the license held; and

(2) An expired or unexpired FCC-issued Amateur Extra Class operator license document granted before April 15, 2000: Telegraphy Elements 1 and 2.

