(a) A written examination (written Element) must prove that the examinee possesses the operational and technical qualifications to perform the duties required by a person holding that class of commercial radio operator license. For each Element, the Commission shall establish through public notices or other appropriate means the number of questions to be included in the question pool, the number of questions to be included in the examination, and the number of questions that must be answered correctly to pass the examination. Each written examination must consist of questions relating to the pertinent subject matter, as follows:

(1) Element 1 (formerly Elements 1 and 2): Basic radio law and operating practice with which every maritime radio operator should be familiar. Questions concerning provisions of laws, treaties, regulations, and operating procedures and practices generally followed or required in communicating by means of radiotelephone stations.

(2) Element 3: General radiotelephone. Questions concerning electronic fundamentals and techniques required to adjust, repair, and maintain radio transmitters and receivers at stations licensed by the FCC in the aviation, maritime, and international fixed public radio services.

(3) Element 5: Radiotelegraph operating practice. Questions concerning radio operating procedures and practices generally followed or required in communicating by means of radiotelegraph stations primarily other than in the maritime mobile services of public correspondence.

(4) Element 6: Advanced radiotelegraph. Questions concerning technical, legal and other matters applicable to the operation of all classes of radiotelegraph stations, including operating procedures and practices in the maritime mobile services of public correspondence, and associated matters such as radio navigational aids, message traffic routing and accounting, etc.

(5) Element 7: GMDSS radio operating practices. Questions concerning GMDSS radio operating procedures and practices sufficient to show detailed practical knowledge of the operation of all GMDSS sub-systems and equipment; ability to send and receive correctly by radiotelephone and narrow-band direct-printing telegraphy; detailed knowledge of the regulations applying to radio communications, knowledge of the documents relating to charges for radio communications and knowledge of those provisions of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea which relate to radio; sufficient knowledge of English to be able to express oneself satisfactorily both orally and in writing; knowledge of and ability to perform each function listed in ยง 80.1081 of this chapter; and knowledge covering the requirements set forth in IMO Assembly Resolution on Training for Radio Personnel (GMDSS), Annex 3.

(6) Element 7R: Restricted GMDSS radio operating practices. Questions concerning those GMDSS radio operating procedures and practices that are applicable to ship stations on vessels that sail exclusively in sea area A1, as defined in ยง 80.1069 of this chapter, sufficient to show detailed practical knowledge of the operation of pertinent GMDSS sub-systems and equipment; ability to send and receive correctly by radio telephone and narrow-band direct-printing telegraphy; detailed knowledge of the regulations governing radio communications within sea area A1, knowledge of the pertinent documents relating to charges for radio communications and knowledge of the pertinent provisions of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea; sufficient knowledge of English to be able to express oneself satisfactorily both orally and in writing; knowledge of and ability to perform each pertinent function listed in ยง 80.1081 of this chapter; and knowledge covering the pertinent requirements set forth in IMO Assembly Resolution on Training for Radio Personnel (GMDSS), Annex 3.

(7) Element 8: Ship radar techniques. Questions concerning specialized theory and practice applicable to the proper installation, servicing and maintenance of ship radar equipment in general use for marine navigational purposes.

(8) Element 9: GMDSS radio maintenance practices and procedures. Questions concerning the requirements set forth in IMO Assembly on Training for Radio Personnel (GMDSS), Annex 5 and IMO Assembly on Radio Maintenance Guidelines for the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System related to Sea Areas A3 and A4.

(b) A telegraphy examination (telegraphy Elements) must prove that the examinee has the ability to send correctly by hand and to receive correctly by ear texts in the international Morse code at not less than the prescribed speed, using all the letters of the alphabet, numerals 0-9, period, comma, question mark, slant mark, and prosigns AR, BT, and SK.
              

(1) Telegraphy Element 1: 16 code groups per minute.

(2) Telegraphy Element 2: 20 words per minute.

(3) Telegraphy Element 3: 20 code groups per minute.

(4) Telegraphy Element 4: 25 words per minute.

