(a) To be qualified to hold any commercial radio operator license, an applicant must have a satisfactory knowledge of FCC rules and must have the ability to send correctly and receive correctly spoken messages in the English language.

(b) An applicant must pass an examination for the issuance of a new commercial radio operator license, other than the Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit and the Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit-Limited Use, and for each change in operator class. An applicant must pass an examination for the issuance of a new Ship Radar Endorsement. Each application for the class of license or endorsement specified below must pass, or otherwise receive credit for, the corresponding examination elements:

(1) First Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate.

(i) Telegraphy Elements 3 and 4;

(ii) Written Elements 1, 5, and 6;

(iii) Applicant must be at least 21 years old;

(iv) Applicant must have one year of experience in sending and receiving public correspondence by radiotelegraph at a public coast station, a ship station, or both.

(2) Second Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate.

(i) Telegraphy Elements 1 and 2;

(ii) Written Elements 1, 5, and 6.

(3) Third Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate.

(i) Telegraphy Elements 1 and 2;

(ii) Written Elements 1 and 5.

(4) General Radiotelephone Operator License: Written Elements 1 and 3.
              

(5) Marine Radio Operator Permit: Written Element 1.

(6) GMDSS Radio Operator's License: Written Elements 1 and 7, or a Proof of Passing Certificate (PPC) issued by the United States Coast Guard or its designee representing a certificate of competency from a Coast Guard-approved training course for a GMDSS endorsement.

(7) Restricted GMDSS Radio Operator License: Written Elements 1 and 7R, or a Proof of Passing Certificate (PPC) issued by the United States Coast Guard or its designee representing a certificate of competency from a Coast Guard-approved training course for a GMDSS endorsement.

(8) GMDSS Radio Maintainer's License: Written Elements 1, 3, and 9.

(9) Ship Radar Endorsement: Written Element 8.

