(a) Commercial radio operator licenses issued by the FCC are classified in accordance with the Radio Regulations of the ITU.

(b) There are eleven types of commercial radio operator licenses, certificates and permits (licenses). The license's ITU classification, if different from its name, is given in parentheses.

(1) First Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate.

(2) Second Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate.

(3) Third Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificate (radiotelegraph operator's special certificate).

(4) General Radiotelephone Operator License (radiotelephone operator's general certificate).

(5) Marine Radio Operator Permit (radiotelephone operator's restricted certificate).

(6) Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit (radiotelephone operator's restricted certificate).

(7) Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit-Limited Use (radiotelephone operator's restricted certificate).

(8) GMDSS Radio Operator's License (general operator's certificate).

(9) Restricted GMDSS Radio Operator's License (restricted operator's certificate).

(10) GMDSS Radio Maintainer's License (technical portion of the first-class radio electronic certificate).

(11) GMDSS Radio Operator/Maintainer License (general operator's certificate/technical portion of the first-class radio electronic certificate).

(c) There are six license endorsements affixed by the FCC to provide special authorizations or restrictions. Endorsements may be affixed to the license(s) indicated in parenthesis.

(1) Ship Radar Endorsement (First and Second Class Radiotelegraph Operator's Certificates, General Radiotelephone Operator License, GMDSS Radio Maintainer's License).

(2) Six Months Service Endorsement (First and Second Class Radiotelegraph Operator's License).

(3) Restrictive endorsements relating to physical handicaps, English language or literacy waivers, or other matters (all licenses).

(4) Marine Radio Operator Permits shall bear the following endorsement: This permit does not authorize the operation of AM, FM or TV broadcast stations.

(5) General Radiotelephone Operator Licenses issued after December 31, 1985, shall bear the following endorsement: This license confers authority to operate licensed radio stations in the Aviation, Marine and International Fixed Public Radio Services only. This authority is subject to: any endorsement placed upon this license; FCC orders, rules, and regulations; United States statutes; and the provisions of any treaties to which the United States is a party. This license does not confer any authority to operate broadcast stations. It is not assignable or transferable.

(6)(i) If a person is afflicted with an uncorrected physical handicap which would clearly prevent the performance of all or any part of the duties of a radio operator, under the license for which application is made, at a station under emergency conditions involving the safety of life or property, that person still may be issued the license if found qualified. Such a license shall bear a restrictive endorsement as follows:

This license is not valid for the performance of any operating duties, other than installation, service and maintenance duties, at any station licensed by the FCC which is required, directly or indirectly, by any treaty, statute or rule or regulation pursuant to statute, to be provided for safety purposes.

(ii) In the case of a license that does not require an examination in technical radio matters, the endorsement specified in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section will be modified by deleting the reference therein to installation, service, and maintenance duties.

(iii) In any case where an applicant who normally would receive or has received a commercial radio operator license bearing the endorsement prescribed by paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, indicates a desire to operate a station falling within the prohibited terms of the endorsement, the applicant may request in writing that such endorsement not be placed upon, or be removed from his or her license, and may submit written comments or statements from other parties in support thereof.

(iv) An applicant who shows that he has performed satisfactorily the duties of a radio operator at a station required to be provided for safety purposes during a period when he or she was afflicted by uncorrected physical handicaps of the same kind and to the same degree as the physical handicaps shown by his or her current application shall not be deemed to be within the provisions of paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section.

(d) A Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit-Limited Use issued by the FCC to an aircraft pilot who is not legally eligible for employment in the United States is valid only for operating radio stations on aircraft.

(e) A Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit-Limited Use issued by the FCC to a person under the provision of Section 303(1)(2) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, is valid only for the operation of radio stations for which that person is the station licensee.

