Power line carrier systems, as defined in ยง 15.3(t), are subject only to the following requirements:

(a) A power utility operating a power line carrier system shall submit the details of all existing systems plus any proposed new systems or changes to existing systems to an industry-operated entity as set forth in ยง 90.35(g) of this chapter. No notification to the FCC is required.

(b) The operating parameters of a power line carrier system (particularly the frequency) shall be selected to achieve the highest practical degree of compatibility with authorized or licensed users of the radio spectrum. The signals from this operation shall be contained within the frequency band 9 kHz to 490 kHz. A power line carrier system shall operate on an unprotected, non-interference basis in accordance with ยง 15.5 of this part. If harmful interference occurs, the electric power utility shall discontinue use or adjust its power line carrier operation, as required, to remedy the interference. Particular attention should be paid to the possibility of interference to Loran C operations at 100 kHz.
                                    

(c) Power line carrier system apparatus shall be operated with the minimum power possible to accomplish the desired purpose. No equipment authorization is required.

(d) The best engineering principles shall be used in the generation of radio frequency currents by power line carrier systems to guard against harmful interference to authorized radio users, particularly on the fundamental and harmonic frequencies.

(e) Power line carrier system apparatus shall conform to such engineering standards as may be promulgated by the Commission. In addition, such systems should adhere to industry approved standards designed to enhance the use of power line carrier systems.

(f) The provisions of this section apply only to systems operated by a power utility for general supervision of the power system and do not permit operation on electric lines which connect the distribution substation to the customer or house wiring. Such operation can be conducted under the other provisions of this part.

