(a) Television receivers and related devices manufactured between April 1, 2009, and June 30, 2009, must include notices about the digital television (DTV) transition. Related devices covered by this requirement: All television broadcast receivers as defined in ยง 15.3(w); TV interface devices as defined in ยง 15.3(y); devices that record and/or display signals received from television broadcast receivers; and set-top boxes available for sale at retail that receive video programming provided by multi-channel video programming distributors.

(b) The notices required under paragraph (a) of this section must:

(1) Be in clear and conspicuous print;

(2) Convey at least the following information about the DTV transition:

(i) The nationwide switch to digital television broadcasting will be complete on June 12, 2009, but your local television stations may switch sooner. After the switch, analog-only television sets that receive TV programming through an antenna will need a converter box to continue to receive over-the-air TV. Watch your local stations to find out when they will turn off their analog signal and switch to digital-only broadcasting. Analog-only TVs should continue to work as before to receive low power, Class A or translator television stations and with cable and satellite TV services, gaming consoles, VCRs, DVD players, and similar products.

(ii) Information about the DTV transition is available from your local television stations, http://www.DTV.gov, or 1-888-CALL-FCC (TTY 1-888-TELL-FCC), and from http://www.dtv2009.gov or 1-888-DTV-2009 (TTY 1-877-530-2634) for information about subsidized coupons for digital-to-analog converter boxes; and

(3) Explain clearly what effect, if any, the DTV transition will have on the use of the receiver or related device, including any limitations or requirements associated with connecting a related device to a DTV receiver.

(c) This notice requirement applies to all responsible parties, as defined in ยง 2.909 of this chapter.

