(a) The requirements of this section shall apply to unidirectional digital cable products. Unidirectional digital cable products are one-way devices that accept a Point of Deployment module (POD) and which include, but are not limited to televisions, set-top-boxes and recording devices connected to digital cable systems. Unidirectional digital cable products do not include interactive two-way digital television products.

(b) A unidirectional digital cable product may not be labeled with or marketed using the term “digital cable ready,” or other terminology that describes the device as “cable ready” or “cable compatible,” or otherwise indicates that the device accepts a POD or conveys the impression that the device is compatible with digital cable service unless it implements at a minimum the following features:

(1) Tunes NTSC analog channels transmitted in-the-clear.

(2) Tunes digital channels that are transmitted in compliance with SCTE 40 2003 (formerly DVS 313): “Digital Cable Network Interface Standard” (incorporated by reference, see § 15.38), provided, however, that with respect to Table B.11 of that standard, the phase noise requirement shall be -86 dB/Hz including both in-the-clear channels and channels that are subject to conditional access.

(3) Allows navigation of channels based on channel information (virtual channel map and source names) provided through the cable system in compliance with ANSI/SCTE 65 2002 (formerly DVS 234): “Service Information Delivered Out-of-Band for Digital Cable Television” (incorporated by reference, see § 15.38), and/or PSIP-enabled navigation (ANSI/SCTE 54 2003 (formerly DVS 241): “Digital Video Service Multiplex and Transport System Standard for Cable Television” (incorporated by reference, see § 15.38)).

(4) Includes the POD-Host Interface specified in SCTE 28 2003 (formerly DVS 295): “Host-POD Interface Standard” (incorporated by reference, see § 15.38), and SCTE 41 2003 (formerly DVS 301): “POD Copy Protection System” (incorporated by reference, see § 15.38), or implementation of a more advanced POD-Host Interface based on successor standards. Support for Internet protocol flows is not required.

(5) Responds to emergency alerts that are transmitted in compliance with ANSI/SCTE 54 2003 (formerly DVS 241): “Digital Video Service Multiplex and Transport System Standard for Cable Television” (incorporated by reference, see § 15.38).

(6) In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section, a unidirectional digital cable television may not be labeled or marketed as digital cable ready or with other terminology as described in paragraph (b) of this section, unless it includes a DTV broadcast tuner as set forth in § 15.117(i) and employs at least one specified interface in accordance with the following schedule:

(i) For 480p grade unidirectional digital cable televisions, either a DVI/HDCP, HDMI/HDCP, or 480p Y,Pb,Pr interface:

(A) Models with screen sizes 36 inches and above: 50% of a manufacturer's or importer's models manufactured or imported after July 1, 2004; 100% of such models manufactured or imported after July 1, 2005.

(B) Models with screen sizes 32 to 35 inches: 50% of a manufacturer's or importer's models manufactured or imported after July 1, 2005; 100% of such models manufactured or imported after July 1, 2006.

(ii) For 720p/1080i grade unidirectional digital cable televisions, either a DVI/HDCP or HDMI/HDCP interface:

(A) Models with screen sizes 36 inches and above: 50% of a manufacturer's or importer's models manufactured or imported after July 1, 2004; 100% of such models manufactured or imported after July 1, 2005.

(B) Models with screen sizes 25 to 35 inches: 50% of a manufacturer's or importer's models manufactured or imported after July 1, 2005; 100% of such models manufactured or imported after July l, 2006.

(C) Models with screen sizes 13 to 24 inches: 100% of a manufacturer's or importer's models manufactured or imported after July 1, 2007.

(c) Before a manufacturer's or importer's first unidirectional digital cable product may be labeled or marketed as digital cable ready or with other terminology as described in paragraph (b) of this section, the manufacturer or importer shall verify the device as follows:

(1) The manufacturer or importer shall have a sample of its first model of a unidirectional digital cable product tested to show compliance with the procedures set forth in Uni-Dir-PICS-I01-030903: “Uni-Directional Receiving Device: Conformance Checklist: PICS Proforma” (incorporated by reference, see § 15.38) at a qualified test facility. The manufacturer or importer shall have any modifications to the product to correct failures of the procedures in Uni-Dir-PICS-I01-030903: “Uni-Directional Receiving Device: Conformance Checklist: PICS Proforma” (incorporated by reference, see § 15.38) retested at a qualified test facility.

(2) A qualified test facility is a facility representing cable television system operators serving a majority of the cable television subscribers in the United States or an independent laboratory with personnel knowledgeable with respect to the standards referenced in paragraph (b) of this section concerning the procedures set forth in Uni-Dir-PICS-I01-030903: “Uni-Directional Receiving Device: Conformance Checklist: PICS Proforma” (incorporated by reference, see § 15.38).

(3) Subsequent to the testing of its initial unidirectional digital cable product model, a manufacturer or importer is not required to have other models of unidirectional digital cable products tested at a qualified test facility for compliance with the procedures of Uni-Dir-PICS-I01-030903: “Uni-Directional Receiving Device: Conformance Checklist: PICS Proforma” (incorporated by reference, see § 15.38). However, the manufacturer or importer shall ensure that all subsequent models of unidirectional digital cable products comply with the procedures in the Uni-Dir-PICS-I01-030903: “Uni-Directional Receiving Device: Conformance Checklist: PICS Proforma” (incorporated by reference, see § 15.38) and all other applicable rules and standards. The manufacturer or importer shall maintain records indicating such compliance in accordance with the verification procedure requirements in part 2, subpart J of this chapter. The manufacturer or importer shall further submit documentation verifying compliance with the procedures in the Uni-Dir-PICS-I01-030903: “Uni-Directional Receiving Device: Conformance Checklist: PICS Proforma” (incorporated by reference, see § 15.38) to a facility representing cable television system operators serving a majority of the cable television subscribers in the United States.

(d) Manufacturers and importers shall provide in appropriate post-sale material that describes the features and functionality of the product, such as the owner's guide, the following language: “This digital television is capable of receiving analog basic, digital basic and digital premium cable television programming by direct connection to a cable system providing such programming. A security card provided by your cable operator is required to view encrypted digital programming. Certain advanced and interactive digital cable services such as video-on-demand, a cable operator's enhanced program guide and data-enhanced television services may require the use of a set-top box. For more information call your local cable operator.”

