(a) In addition to the requirements in part 2 of this chapter, a device subject to certification, or verification shall be labelled as follows:

(1) Receivers associated with the operation of a licensed radio service, e.g., FM broadcast under part 73 of this chapter, land mobile operation under part 90, etc., shall bear the following statement in a conspicuous location on the device:
                                    

(2) A stand-alone cable input selector switch, shall bear the following statement in a conspicuous location on the device:
                                    

(3) All other devices shall bear the following statement in a conspicuous location on the device:
                                    

(4) Where a device is constructed in two or more sections connected by wires and marketed together, the statement specified under paragraph (a) of this section is required to be affixed only to the main control unit.

(5) When the device is so small or for such use that it is not practicable to place the statement specified under paragraph (a) of this section on it, the information required by this paragraph shall be placed in a prominent location in the instruction manual or pamphlet supplied to the user or, alternatively, shall be placed on the container in which the device is marketed. However, the FCC identifier or the unique identifier, as appropriate, must be displayed on the device.

(b) Products subject to authorization under a Declaration of Conformity shall be labelled as follows:

(1) The label shall be located in a conspicuous location on the device and shall contain the unique identification described in § 2.1074 of this chapter and the following logo:

(i) If the product is authorized based on testing of the product or system; or

(ii) If a personal computer is authorized based on assembly using separately authorized components, in accordance with § 15.101(c)(2) or (c)(3), and the resulting product is not separately tested:

(2) Label text and information should be in a size of type large enough to be readily legible, consistent with the dimensions of the equipment and the label. However, the type size for the text is not required to be larger than eight point.

(3) When the device is so small or for such use that it is not practicable to place the statement specified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section on it, such as for a CPU board or a plug-in circuit board peripheral device, the text associated with the logo may be placed in a prominent location in the instruction manual or pamphlet supplied to the user. However, the unique identification (trade name and model number) and the logo must be displayed on the device.

(4) The label shall not be a stick-on, paper label. The label on these products shall be permanently affixed to the product and shall be readily visible to the purchaser at the time of purchase, as described in § 2.925(d) of this chapter. “Permanently affixed” means that the label is etched, engraved, stamped, silkscreened, indelibly printed, or otherwise permanently marked on a permanently attached part of the equipment or on a nameplate of metal, plastic, or other material fastened to the equipment by welding, riveting, or a permanent adhesive. The label must be designed to last the expected lifetime of the equipment in the environment in which the equipment may be operated and must not be readily detachable.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Consumer electronics TV receiving devices, including TV receivers, videocassette recorders, and similar devices, that incorporate features intended to be used with cable television service, but do not fully comply with the technical standards for cable ready equipment set forth in § 15.118, shall not be marketed with terminology that describes the device as “cable ready” or “cable compatible,” or that otherwise conveys the impression that the device is fully compatible with cable service. Factual statements about the various features of a device that are intended for use with cable service or the quality of such features are acceptable so long as such statements do not imply that the device is fully compatible with cable service. Statements relating to product features are generally acceptable where they are limited to one or more specific features of a device, rather than the device as a whole. This requirement applies to consumer TV receivers, videocassette recorders and similar devices manufactured or imported for sale in this country on or after October 31, 1994.

