(a) Measurements of the radiated emissions of a TV interface device shall be conducted with the output terminal(s) of the device terminated by a resistance equal to the rated output impedance. The emanations of a TV interface device incorporating an intentional radiator shall not exceed the limits in ยง 15.109 or subpart C of this part, whichever is higher for each frequency. Where it is possible to determine which portion of the device is contributing a particular radio frequency emission, the emissions from the TV interface device portion shall comply with the emission limits in ยง 15.109, and the emissions from the intentional radiator shall comply with subpart C of this part.

(b) Output signal limits:

(1) At any RF output terminal, the maximum measured RMS voltage, in microvolts, corresponding to the peak envelope power of the modulated signal during maximum amplitude peaks across a resistance (R in ohms) matching the rated output impedance of the TV interface device, shall not exceed the following:

(i) For a cable system terminal device or a TV interface device used with a master antenna, 692.8 times the square root of (R) for the video signal and 155 times the square root of (R) for the audio signal.

(ii) For all other TV interface devices, 346.4 times the square root of (R) for the video signal and 77.5 times the square root of (R) for the audio signal.

(2) At any RF output terminal, the maximum measured RMS voltage, in microvolts, corresponding to the peak envelope power of the modulated signal during maximum amplitude peaks across a resistance (R in ohms) matching the rated output impedance of the TV interface device, of any emission appearing on frequencies removed by more than 4.6 MHz below or 7.4 MHz above the video carrier frequency on which the TV interface device is operated shall not exceed the following:

(i) For a cable system terminal device or a TV interface device used with a master antenna, 692.8 times the square root of (R).

(ii) For all other TV interface devices, 10.95 times the square root of (R).

(3) The term master antenna used in this section refers to TV interface devices employed for central distribution of television or other video signals within a building. Such TV interface devices must be designed to:

(i) Distribute multiple television signals at the same time;

(ii) Distribute such signals by cable to outlets or TV receivers in multiple rooms in the building in which the TV interface devices are installed; and,

(iii) Distribute all over-the-air or cable signals.
                                    

(c) A TV interface device shall be equipped with a transfer switch for connecting the antenna terminals of a receiver selectively either to the receiving antenna or to the radio frequency output of the TV interface device, subject to the following:

(1) When measured in any of its set positions, transfer switches shall comply with the following requirements:
                                    

(i) For a cable system terminal device or a TV interface device equipped for use with a cable system or a master antenna, as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the isolation between the antenna and cable input terminals shall be at least 80 dB from 54 MHz to 216 MHz, at least 60 dB from 216 MHz to 550 MHz and at least 55 dB from 550 MHz to 806 MHz. The 80 dB standard applies at 216 MHz and the 60 dB standard applies at 550 MHz. In the case of a transfer switch requiring a power source, the required isolation shall be maintained in the event the device is not connected to a power source or power is interrupted. The provisions of this paragraph regarding frequencies in the range 550 MHz to 806 MHz are applicable as of June 30, 1997.

(ii) For all other TV interface devices, the maximum voltage, corresponding to the peak envelope power of the modulated video signal during maximum amplitude peaks, in microvolts, appearing at the receiving antenna input terminals when terminated with a resistance (R in ohms) matching the rated impedance of the antenna input of the switch, shall not exceed 0.346 times the square root of (R).

(iii) Measurement to determine compliance with the transfer switch limits shall be made using a connecting cable, where required, between the TV interface device and the transfer switch of the type and length:

(A) Provided with the TV interface device,

(B) Recommended in the instruction manual, or

(C) Normally employed by the consumer.

(2) A TV interface device shall be designed and constructed, to the extent practicable, so as to preclude the possibility that the consumer may inadvertently attach the output of the device to the receiving antenna, if any, without first going through the transfer switch.

(3) A transfer switch is not required for a TV interface device that, when connected, results in the user no longer having any need to receive standard over-the-air broadcast signals via a separate antenna. A transfer switch is not required to be marketed with a cable system terminal device unless that device provides for the connection of an external antenna. A transfer switch is not required for a device that is intended to be used as an accessory to an authorized TV interface device.

(4) An actual transfer switch is not required for a TV interface device, including a cable system terminal device, that has an antenna input terminal(s); provided, the circuitry following the antenna input terminal(s) has sufficient bandwidth to allow the reception of all TV broadcast channels authorized under part 73 of this chapter and: For a cable system terminal device that can alternate between the reception of cable television service and an antenna, compliance with the isolation requirement specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section can be demonstrated; and, for all other TV interface devices, the maximum voltage appearing at the antenna terminal(s) does not exceed the limit in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

(5) If a transfer switch is not required, the following label shall be used in addition to the label shown in ยง 15.19(a):
                                    

(d) A TV interface device, including a cable system terminal device, shall incorporate circuitry to automatically prevent emanations from the device from exceeding the technical specifications in this part. These circuits shall be adequate to accomplish their functions when the TV interface device is presented, if applicable, with video input signal levels in the range of one to five volts; this requirement is not applicable to a TV interface device that uses a built-in signal source and has no provisions for the connection of an external signal source. For devices that contain provisions for an external signal source but do not contain provisions for the input of an external baseband signal, e.g., some cable system terminal devices, compliance with the provisions of this paragraph shall be demonstrated with a radio frequency input signal of 0 to 25 dBmV.
                                    

(e) For cable system terminal devices and TV interface devices used with a master antenna, as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the holder of the grant of authorization shall specify in the instruction manual or pamphlet, if a manual is not provided, the types of wires or coaxial cables necessary to ensure that the unit complies with the requirements of this part. The holder of the grant of authorization must comply with the provisions of ยง 15.27. For all other TV interface devices, the wires or coaxial cables used to couple the output signals to the TV receiver shall be provided by the responsible party.

(f) A TV interface device which is submitted to the Commission as a composite device in a single enclosure containing a RF modulator, video source and other component devices shall be submitted on a single application (FCC Form 731) and shall be authorized as a single device.

(g) An external device or accessory that is intended to be attached to a TV interface device shall comply with the technical and administrative requirements set out in the rules under which it operates. For example, a personal computer must be certificated to show compliance with the regulations for digital devices.

(h) Stand-alone switches used to alternate between cable service and an antenna shall provide isolation between the antenna and cable input terminals that is at least 80 dB from 54 MHz to 216 MHz, at least 60 dB from 216 MHz to 550 MHz and at least 55 dB from 550 MHz to 806 MHz. The 80 dB standard applies at 216 MHz and the 60 dB standard applies at 550 MHz. In the case of stand-alone switches requiring a power source, the required isolation shall be maintained in the event the device is not connected to a power source or power is interrupted. The provisions of this paragraph are applicable as of June 30, 1997.

(i) Switches and other devices intended to be used to by-pass the processing circuitry of a cable system terminal device, whether internal to such a terminal device or a stand-alone unit, shall not attenuate the input signal more than 6 dB from 54 MHz to 550 MHz, or more than 8 dB from 550 MHz to 804 MHz. The 6 dB standard applies at 550 MHz. The provisions of this paragraph are applicable June 30, 1997.

