(a) Operation under the provisions of this section is limited to automatic vehicle identification systems (AVIS) which use swept frequency techniques for the purpose of automatically identifying transportation vehicles.

(b) The field strength anywhere within the frequency range swept by the signal shall not exceed 3000 microvolts/meter/MHz at 3 meters in any direction. Further, an AVIS, when in its operating position, shall not produce a field strength greater than 400 microvolts/meter/MHz at 3 meters in any direction within ±10 degrees of the horizontal plane. In addition to the provisions of § 15.205, the field strength of radiated emissions outside the frequency range swept by the signal shall be limited to a maximum of 100 microvolts/meter/MHz at 3 meters, measured from 30 MHz to 20 GHz for the complete system. The emission limits in this paragraph are based on measurement instrumentation employing an average detector. The provisions in § 15.35 for limiting peak emissions apply.

(c) The minimum sweep repetition rate of the signal shall not be lower than 4000 sweeps per second, and the maximum sweep repetition rate of the signal shall not exceed 50,000 sweeps per second.

(d) An AVIS shall employ a horn antenna or other comparable directional antenna for signal emission.

(e) Provision shall be made so that signal emission from the AVIS shall occur only when the vehicle to be identified is within the radiated field of the system.

(f) In addition to the labelling requirements in § 15.19(a), the label attached to the AVIS transmitter shall contain a third statement regarding operational conditions, as follows:
                                    

(g) In addition to the information required in subpart J of part 2, the application for certification shall contain:

(1) Measurements of field strength per MHz along with the intermediate frequency of the spectrum analyzer or equivalent measuring receiver;

(2) The angular separation between the direction at which maximum field strength occurs and the direction at which the field strength is reduced to 400 microvolts/meter/MHz at 3 meters;

(3) A photograph of the spectrum analyzer display showing the entire swept frequency signal and a calibrated scale for the vertical and horizontal axes; the spectrum analyzer settings that were used shall be labelled on the photograph; and,

(4) The results of the frequency search for spurious and sideband emissions from 30 MHz to 20 GHz, exclusive of the swept frequency band, with the measuring instrument as close as possible to the unit under test.

