(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the field strength of emissions from intentional radiators operated within these frequency bands shall comply with the following:

(b) Fixed, point-to-point operation as referred to in this paragraph shall be limited to systems employing a fixed transmitter transmitting to a fixed remote location. Point-to-multipoint systems, omnidirectional applications, and multiple co-located intentional radiators transmitting the same information are not allowed. Fixed, point-to-point operation is permitted in the 24.05-24.25 GHz band subject to the following conditions:

(1) The field strength of emissions in this band shall not exceed 2500 millivolts/meter.

(2) The frequency tolerance of the carrier signal shall be maintained within ±0.001% of the operating frequency over a temperature variation of -20 degrees to +50 degrees C at normal supply voltage, and for a variation in the primary supply voltage from 85% to 115% of the rated supply voltage at a temperature of 20 degrees C. For battery operated equipment, the equipment tests shall be performed using a new battery.

(3) Antenna gain must be at least 33 dBi. Alternatively, the main lobe beamwidth must not exceed 3.5 degrees. The beamwidth limit shall apply to both the azimuth and elevation planes. At antenna gains over 33 dBi or beamwidths narrower than 3.5 degrees, power must be reduced to ensure that the field strength does not exceed 2500 millivolts/meter.

(c) Field strength limits are specified at a distance of 3 meters.

(d) Emissions radiated outside of the specified frequency bands, except for harmonics, shall be attenuated by at least 50 dB below the level of the fundamental or to the general radiated emission limits in § 15.209, whichever is the lesser attenuation.

(e) As shown in § 15.35(b), for frequencies above 1000 MHz, the field strength limits in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are based on average limits. However, the peak field strength of any emission shall not exceed the maximum permitted average limits specified above by more than 20 dB under any condition of modulation. For point-to-point operation under paragraph (b) of this section, the peak field strength shall not exceed 2500 millivolts/meter at 3 meters along the antenna azimuth.

