(a) Any person who manufactures, sells, leases, or offers for sale or lease, low power auxiliary stations capable of operating in the core TV bands (channels 2-51, excluding channel 37) is subject to the following disclosure requirements: (1) Such persons must display the consumer disclosure text, as specified by the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau and the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau, at the point of sale or lease of each such low power auxiliary station. The text must be displayed in a clear, conspicuous, and readily legible manner. One way to fulfill the requirement in this section is to display the consumer disclosure text in a prominent manner on the product box by using a label (either printed onto the box or otherwise affixed to the box), a sticker, or other means. Another way to fulfill this requirement is to display the text immediately adjacent to each low power auxiliary station offered for sale or lease and clearly associated with the model to which it pertains.

(2) If such persons offer such low power auxiliary stations via direct mail, catalog, or electronic means, they shall prominently display the consumer disclosure text in close proximity to the images and descriptions of each such low power auxiliary station. The text should be in a size large enough to be clear, conspicuous, and readily legible, consistent with the dimensions of the advertisement or description.

(3) If such persons have Web sites pertaining to these low power auxiliary stations, the consumer disclosure text must be displayed there in a clear, conspicuous, and readily legible manner (even in the event such persons do not sell low power auxiliary stations directly to the public).

(b) The consumer disclosure text described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is set out in an appendix to this section.

Most users do not need a license to operate this wireless microphone system. Nevertheless, operating this microphone system without a license is subject to certain restrictions: The system may not cause harmful interference; it must operate at a low power level (not in excess of 50 milliwatts); and it has no protection from interference received from any other device. Purchasers should also be aware that the FCC is currently evaluating use of wireless microphone systems, and these rules are subject to change. For more information, call the FCC at 1-888-CALL-FCC (TTY: 1-888-TELL-FCC) or visit the FCC's wireless microphone Web site at http://www.fcc.gov/cgb/wirelessmicrophones.
                                    

