(a) Except as provided elsewhere in this subpart, the emissions from an intentional radiator shall not exceed the field strength levels specified in the following table:

(b) In the emission table above, the tighter limit applies at the band edges.

(c) The level of any unwanted emissions from an intentional radiator operating under these general provisions shall not exceed the level of the fundamental emission. For intentional radiators which operate under the provisions of other sections within this part and which are required to reduce their unwanted emissions to the limits specified in this table, the limits in this table are based on the frequency of the unwanted emission and not the fundamental frequency. However, the level of any unwanted emissions shall not exceed the level of the fundamental frequency.

(d) The emission limits shown in the above table are based on measurements employing a CISPR quasi-peak detector except for the frequency bands 9-90 kHz, 110-490 kHz and above 1000 MHz. Radiated emission limits in these three bands are based on measurements employing an average detector.

(e) The provisions in §§ 15.31, 15.33, and 15.35 for measuring emissions at distances other than the distances specified in the above table, determining the frequency range over which radiated emissions are to be measured, and limiting peak emissions apply to all devices operated under this part.

(f) In accordance with § 15.33(a), in some cases the emissions from an intentional radiator must be measured to beyond the tenth harmonic of the highest fundamental frequency designed to be emitted by the intentional radiator because of the incorporation of a digital device. If measurements above the tenth harmonic are so required, the radiated emissions above the tenth harmonic shall comply with the general radiated emission limits applicable to the incorporated digital device, as shown in § 15.109 and as based on the frequency of the emission being measured, or, except for emissions contained in the restricted frequency bands shown in § 15.205, the limit on spurious emissions specified for the intentional radiator, whichever is the higher limit. Emissions which must be measured above the tenth harmonic of the highest fundamental frequency designed to be emitted by the intentional radiator and which fall within the restricted bands shall comply with the general radiated emission limits in § 15.109 that are applicable to the incorporated digital device.

(g) Perimeter protection systems may operate in the 54-72 MHz and 76-88 MHz bands under the provisions of this section. The use of such perimeter protection systems is limited to industrial, business and commercial applications.

