(a) Operation under this section is limited to field disturbance sensors that are mounted in terrestrial transportation vehicles. Terrestrial use is limited to earth surface-based, non-aviation applications. Operation within the 16.2-17.7 GHz band is limited to field disturbance sensors that are used only for back-up assistance and that operate only when the vehicle is engaged in reverse.

(1) The −10 dB bandwidth of the fundamental emission shall be located within the 16.2-17.7 GHz band or within the 23.12-29.0 GHz band, exclusive of the 23.6-24.0 GHz restricted band, as appropriate, under all conditions of operation including the effects from stepped frequency, frequency hopping or other modulation techniques that may be employed as well as the frequency stability of the transmitter over expected variations in temperature and supply voltage.

(2) The −10 dB bandwidth of the fundamental emission shall be 10 MHz or greater. For transmitters that employ frequency hopping, stepped frequency or similar modulation types, measurement of the −10 dB minimum bandwidth specified in this paragraph shall be made with the frequency hop or step function disabled and with the transmitter operating continuously at a fundamental frequency following the provisions of § 15.31(m).

(3) For systems operating in the 23.12-29.0 GHz band, the frequencies at which the highest average emission level and at which the highest peak level emission appear shall be greater than 24.075 GHz.

(4) These devices shall operate only when the vehicle is operating, e.g., the engine is running. Operation shall occur only upon specific activation, such as upon starting the vehicle, changing gears, or engaging a turn signal. The operation of these devices shall be related to the proper functioning of the transportation vehicle, e.g., collision avoidance.

(b) Emissions from a transmitter operating under this section shall not exceed the following equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) density levels:

(1) For transmitters operating in the 16.2-17.7 GHz band, the RMS average radiated emissions above 960 MHz from a device operating under the provisions of this section shall not exceed the following EIRP limits based on measurements using a 1 MHz resolution bandwidth:

(2) For transmitters operating in the 23.12-29.0 GHz band, the RMS average radiated emissions above 960 MHz from a device operating under the provisions of this section shall not exceed the following EIRP limits based on measurements using a 1 MHz resolution bandwidth:

(3) In addition to the radiated emission limits specified in the tables in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, transmitters operating under the provisions of this section shall not exceed the following RMS average EIRP limits when measured using a resolution bandwidth of no less than 1 kHz:

(4) There is a limit on the peak level of the emissions contained within a 50 MHz bandwidth centered on the frequency at which the highest radiated emission occurs and this 50 MHz bandwidth must be contained within the 16.2-17.7 GHz band or the 24.05-29.0 GHz band, as appropriate. The peak EIRP limit is 20 log (RBW/50) dBm where RBW is the resolution bandwidth in MHz employed by the measurement instrument. RBW shall not be lower than 1 MHz or greater than 50 MHz. Further, RBW shall not be greater than the −10 dB bandwidth of the device under test. For transmitters that employ frequency hopping, stepped frequency or similar modulation types, measurement of the −10 dB minimum bandwidth specified in this paragraph shall be made with the frequency hop or step function disabled and with the transmitter operating continuously at a fundamental frequency. The video bandwidth of the measurement instrument shall not be less than RBW. The limit on peak emissions applies to the 50 MHz bandwidth centered on the frequency at which the highest level radiated emission occurs. If RBW is greater than 3 MHz, the application for certification shall contain a detailed description of the test procedure, the instrumentation employed in the testing, and the calibration of the test setup.

(5) Radiated emissions at or below 960 MHz shall not exceed the emission levels in § 15.209.

(6) Emissions from digital circuitry used to enable the operation of the transmitter may comply with the limits in § 15.209 provided it can be clearly demonstrated that those emissions are due solely to emissions from digital circuitry contained within the transmitter and the emissions are not intended to be radiated from the transmitter's antenna. Emissions from associated digital devices, as defined in § 15.3(k) , e.g., emissions from digital circuitry used to control additional functions or capabilities other than the operation of the transmitter, are subject to the limits contained in subpart B of this part. Emissions from these digital circuits shall not be employed in determining the −10 dB bandwidth of the fundamental emission or the frequency at which the highest emission level occurs.

(c) Measurement procedures:

(1) All emissions at and below 960 MHz are based on measurements employing a CISPR quasi-peak detector. Unless otherwise specified, all RMS average emission levels specified in this section are to be measured utilizing a 1 MHz resolution bandwidth with a one millisecond dwell over each 1 MHz segment. The frequency span of the analyzer should equal the number of sampling bins times 1 MHz and the sweep rate of the analyzer should equal the number of sampling bins times one millisecond. The provision in § 15.35(c) that allows emissions to be averaged over a 100 millisecond period does not apply to devices operating under this section. The video bandwidth of the measurement instrument shall not be less than the resolution bandwidth and trace averaging shall not be employed. The RMS average emission measurement is to be repeated over multiple sweeps with the analyzer set for maximum hold until the amplitude stabilizes.

(2) The peak emission measurement is to be repeated over multiple sweeps with the analyzer set for maximum hold until the amplitude stabilizes.

(3) For transmitters that employ frequency hopping, stepped frequency or similar modulation types, the peak emission level measurement, the measurement of the RMS average emission levels, the measurement to determine the center frequency, and the measurement to determine the frequency at which the highest level emission occurs shall be made with the frequency hop or step function active. Gated signals may be measured with the gating active. The provisions of § 15.31(c) continue to apply to transmitters that employ swept frequency modulation.

(4) The −10 dB bandwidth is based on measurement using a peak detector, a 1 MHz resolution bandwidth, and a video bandwidth greater than or equal to the resolution bandwidth.

(5) Alternative measurement procedures may be considered by the Commission.

