(a) The −10 dB bandwidth of a device operating under the provisions of this section must be contained within the 5925-7250 MHz band under all conditions of operation including the effects from stepped frequency, frequency hopping or other modulation techniques that may be employed as well as the frequency stability of the transmitter over expected variations in temperature and supply voltage.

(b) The −10 dB bandwidth of the fundamental emission shall be at least 50 MHz. For transmitters that employ frequency hopping, stepped frequency or similar modulation types, measurement of the −10 dB minimum bandwidth specified in this paragraph shall be made with the frequency hop or step function disabled and with the transmitter operating continuously at a fundamental frequency following the provisions of § 15.31(m).

(c) Operation on board an aircraft or a satellite is prohibited. Devices operating under this section may not be employed for the operation of toys. Except for operation onboard a ship or a terrestrial transportation vehicle, the use of a fixed outdoor infrastructure is prohibited. A fixed infrastructure includes antennas mounted on outdoor structures, e.g., antennas mounted on the outside of a building or on a telephone pole.

(d) Emissions from a transmitter operating under this section shall not exceed the following equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) density levels:

(1) The radiated emissions above 960 MHz from a device operating under the provisions of this section shall not exceed the following RMS average limits based on measurements using a 1 MHz resolution bandwidth:

(2) In addition to the radiated emission limits specified in the table in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, transmitters operating under the provisions of this section shall not exceed the following RMS average limits when measured using a resolution bandwidth of no less than 1 kHz:

(3) There is a limit on the peak level of the emissions contained within a 50 MHz bandwidth centered on the frequency at which the highest radiated emission occurs and this 50 MHz bandwidth must be contained within the 5925-7250 MHz band. The peak EIRP limit is 20 log (RBW/50) dBm where RBW is the resolution bandwidth in megahertz that is employed by the measurement instrument. RBW shall not be lower than 1 MHz or greater than 50 MHz. The video bandwidth of the measurement instrument shall not be less than RBW. If RBW is greater than 3 MHz, the application for certification filed with the Commission shall contain a detailed description of the test procedure, calibration of the test setup, and the instrumentation employed in the testing.

(4) Radiated emissions at or below 960 MHz shall not exceed the emission levels in § 15.209.

(5) Emissions from digital circuitry used to enable the operation of the transmitter may comply with the limits in § 15.209 provided it can be clearly demonstrated that those emissions are due solely to emissions from digital circuitry contained within the transmitter and the emissions are not intended to be radiated from the transmitter's antenna. Emissions from associated digital devices, as defined in § 15.3(k), e.g., emissions from digital circuitry used to control additional functions or capabilities other than the operation of the transmitter, are subject to the limits contained in subpart B of this part. Emissisons from these digital circuits shall not be employed in determining the −10 dB bandwidth of the fundamental emission or the frequency at which the highest emission level occurs.

(e) Measurement procedures:

(1) All emissions at and below 960 MHz are based on measurements employing a CISPR quasi-peak detector. Unless otherwise specified, all RMS average emission levels specified in this section are to be measured utilizing a 1 MHz resolution bandwidth with a one millisecond dwell over each 1 MHz segment. The frequency span of the analyzer should equal the number of sampling bins times 1 MHz and the sweep rate of the analyzer should equal the number of sampling bins times one millisecond. The provision in § 15.35(c) that allows emissions to be averaged over a 100 millisecond period does not apply to devices operating under this section. The video bandwidth of the measurement instrument shall not be less than the resolution bandwidth and trace averaging shall not be employed. The RMS average emission measurement is to be repeated over multiple sweeps with the analyzer set for maximum hold until the amplitude stabilizes.

(2) The peak emission measurement is to be repeated over multiple sweeps with the analyzer set for maximum hold until the amplitude stabilizes.

(3) For transmitters that employ frequency hopping, stepped frequency or similar modulation types, the peak emission level measurement, the measurement of the RMS average emission levels, and the measurement to determine the frequency at which the highest level emission occurs shall be made with the frequency hop or step function active. Gated signals may be measured with the gating active. The provisions of § 15.31(c) continue to apply to transmitters that employ swept frequency modulation.

(4) The −10 dB bandwidth is based on measurement using a peak detector, a 1 MHz resolution bandwidth, and a video bandwidth greater than or equal to the resolution bandwidth.

(5) Alternative measurement procedures may be considered by the Commission.

