A TV interface device, including a cable system terminal device, which is marketed as a kit shall comply with the following requirements:

(a) All parts necessary for the assembled device to comply with the technical requirements of this part must be supplied with the kit. No mechanism for adjustment that can cause operation in violation of the requirements of this part shall be made accessible to the builder.

(b) At least two units of the kit shall be assembled in exact accordance with the instructions supplied with the product to be marketed. If all components required to fully complete the kit (other than those specified in paragraph (a) of this section which are needed for compliance with the technical provisions and must be included with the kit) are not normally furnished with the kit, assembly shall be made using the recommended components. The assembled units shall be certified or authorized under the Declaration of Conformity procedure, as appropriate, pursuant to the requirements of this part.

(1) The measurement data required for a TV interface device subject to certification shall be obtained for each of the two units and submitted with an application for certification pursuant to subpart J of part 2 of this chapter.

(2) The measurement data required for a TV interface device subject to Declaration of Conformity shall be obtained for the units tested and retained on file pursuant to the provisions of subpart J of part 2 of this chapter.

(c) A copy of the exact instructions that will be provided for assembly of the device shall be submitted with an application for certification. Those parts which are not normally furnished shall be detailed in the application for equipment authorization.

(d) In lieu of the label required by § 15.19, the following label, along with the label bearing the FCC identifier and other information specified in §§ 2.925 and 2.926, shall be included in the kit with instructions to the builder that it shall be attached to the completed kit:

(e) For the purpose of this section, circuit boards used as repair parts for the replacement of electrically identical defective circuit boards are not considered to be kits.

