(a) The field strength of any emission within this band shall not exceed 10,000 microvolts/meter at 3 meters. The emission limit in this paragraph is based on measurement instrumentation employing an average detector. The provisions in § 15.35 for limiting peak emissions apply.

(b) The field strength of any emissions appearing between the band edges and up to 10 kHz above and below the band edges shall be attenuated at least 26 dB below the level of the unmodulated carrier or to the general limits in § 15.209, whichever permits the higher emission levels. The field strength of any emissions removed by more than 10 kHz from the band edges shall not exceed the general radiated emission limits in § 15.209. All signals exceeding 20 microvolts/meter at 3 meters shall be reported in the application for certification.

(c) For a home-built intentional radiator, as defined in § 15.23(a), operating within the band 49.82-49.90 MHz, the following standards may be employed:

(1) The RF carrier and modulation products shall be maintained within the band 49.82-49.90 MHz.

(2) The total input power to the device measured at the battery or the power line terminals shall not exceed 100 milliwatts under any condition of modulation.

(3) The antenna shall be a single element, one meter or less in length, permanently mounted on the enclosure containing the device.

(4) Emissions outside of this band shall be attenuated at least 20 dB below the level of the unmodulated carrier.

(5) The regulations contained in § 15.23 of this part apply to intentional radiators constructed under the provisions of this paragraph.

(d) Cordless telephones are not permitted to operate under the provisions of this section.

