(a) Operation of devices under the provisions of this section is limited to indoor use;

(1) Devices operating under the provisions of this section, by the nature of their design, must be capable of operation only indoors. The necessity to operate with a fixed indoor infrastructure, e.g., a transmitter that must be connected to the AC power lines, may be considered sufficient to demonstrate this.

(2) The use of outdoor mounted antennas, e.g., antennas mounted on the outside of a building or on a telephone pole, or any other outdoors infrastructure is prohibited.

(3) The emissions from equipment operated under this section shall not be intentionally directed outside of the building in which the equipment is located, such as through a window or a doorway.

(4) Devices operating under the provisions of this section shall bear the following or similar statement in a conspicuous location on the device or in the instruction manual supplied with the device: “This equipment may only be operated indoors. Operation outdoors is in violation of 47 U.S.C. 301 and could subject the operator to serious legal penalties.”

(b) Operation under the provisions of this section is not permitted on aircraft or satellites.

(c) Within the 92-95 GHz bands, the emission levels shall not exceed the following:

(1) The average power density of any emission, measured during the transmit interval, shall not exceed 9 uW/sq. cm, as measured at 3 meters from the radiating structure, and the peak power density of any emission shall not exceed 18 uW/sq. cm, as measured 3 meters from the radiating structure.

(2) Peak power density shall be measured with an RF detector that has a detection bandwidth that encompasses the band being used and has a video bandwidth of at least 10 MHz, or uses an equivalent measurement method.

(3) The average emission limits shall be calculated based on the measured peak levels, over the actual time period during which transmission occurs.

(d) Limits on spurious emissions:

(1) The power density of any emissions outside the band being used shall consist solely of spurious emissions.

(2) Radiated emissions below 40 GHz shall not exceed the general limits in § 15.209.

(3) Between 40 GHz and 200 GHz, the level of these emissions shall not exceed 90 pW/cm 2 at a distance of 3 meters.

(4) The levels of the spurious emissions shall not exceed the level of the fundamental emission.

(e) The total peak transmitter output power shall not exceed 500 mW.

(f) Fundamental emissions must be contained within the frequency bands specified in this section during all conditions of operation. Equipment is presumed to operate over the temperature range −20 to +50 degrees Celsius with an input voltage variation of 85% to 115% of rated input voltage, unless justification is presented to demonstrate otherwise.

(g) Regardless of the maximum EIRP and maximum power density levels permitted under this section, devices operating under the provisions of this section are subject to the radiofrequency radiation exposure requirements specified in 47 CFR 1.1307(b), 2.1091, and 2.1093, as appropriate. Applications for equipment authorization of devices operating under this section must contain a statement confirming compliance with these requirements for both fundamental emissions and unwanted emissions. Technical information showing the basis for this statement must be submitted to the Commission upon request.

(h) Any transmitter that has received the necessary FCC equipment authorization under the rules of this chapter may be mounted in a group installation for simultaneous operation with one or more other transmitter(s) that have received the necessary FCC equipment authorization, without any additional equipment authorization. However, no transmitter operating under the provisions of this section may be equipped with external phase-locking inputs that permit beam-forming arrays to be realized.

