(a) Except as shown in paragraph (d) of this section, only spurious emissions are permitted in any of the frequency bands listed below:

(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, the field strength of emissions appearing within these frequency bands shall not exceed the limits shown in § 15.209. At frequencies equal to or less than 1000 MHz, compliance with the limits in § 15.209 shall be demonstrated using measurement instrumentation employing a CISPR quasi-peak detector. Above 1000 MHz, compliance with the emission limits in § 15.209 shall be demonstrated based on the average value of the measured emissions. The provisions in § 15.35 apply to these measurements.

(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, regardless of the field strength limits specified elsewhere in this subpart, the provisions of this section apply to emissions from any intentional radiator.

(d) The following devices are exempt from the requirements of this section:

(1) Swept frequency field disturbance sensors operating between 1.705 and 37 MHz provided their emissions only sweep through the bands listed in paragraph (a) of this section, the sweep is never stopped with the fundamental emission within the bands listed in paragraph (a) of this section, and the fundamental emission is outside of the bands listed in paragraph (a) of this section more than 99% of the time the device is actively transmitting, without compensation for duty cycle.

(2) Transmitters used to detect buried electronic markers at 101.4 kHz which are employed by telephone companies.

(3) Cable locating equipment operated pursuant to § 15.213.

(4) Any equipment operated under the provisions of §§ 15.253, 15.255 or 15.257.

(5) Biomedical telemetry devices operating under the provisions of § 15.242 of this part are not subject to the restricted band 608-614 MHz but are subject to compliance within the other restricted bands.

(6) Transmitters operating under the provisions of subparts D or F of this part.

(7) Devices operated pursuant to § 15.225 are exempt from complying with this section for the 13.36-13.41 MHz band only.

(8) Devices operated in the 24.075-24.175 GHz band under § 15.245 are exempt from complying with the requirements of this section for the 48.15-48.35 GHz and 72.225-72.525 GHz bands only, and shall not exceed the limits specified in § 15.245(b).

(9) Devices operated in the 24.0-24.25 GHz band under § 15.249 are exempt from complying with the requirements of this section for the 48.0-48.5 GHz and 72.0-72.75 GHz bands only, and shall not exceed the limits specified in § 15.249(a).

(e) Harmonic emissions appearing in the restricted bands above 17.7 GHz from field disturbance sensors operating under the provisions of § 15.245 shall not exceed the limits specified in § 15.245(b).

