(a) [Reserved]

(b) All transmissions must use only digital modulation techniques. Both asynchronous and isochronous operations are permitted within the 1920-1930 MHz band.

(c) Peak transmit power shall not exceed 100 microwatts multiplied by the square root of the emission bandwidth in hertz. Peak transmit power must be measured over any interval of continuous transmission using instrumentation calibrated in terms of an rms-equivalent voltage. The measurement results shall be properly adjusted for any instrument limitations, such as detector response times, limited resolution bandwidth capability when compared to the emission bandwidth, sensitivity, etc., so as to obtain a true peak measurement for the emission in question over the full bandwidth of the channel.

(d) Power spectral density shall not exceed 3 milliwatts in any 3 kHz bandwidth as measured with a spectrum analyzer having a resolution bandwidth of 3 kHz.

(e) The peak transmit power shall be reduced by the amount in decibels that the maximum directional gain of the antenna exceeds 3 dBi.

(f) The device shall automatically discontinue transmission in case of either absence of information to transmit or operational failure. The provisions in this section are not intended to preclude transmission of control and signaling information or use of repetitive codes used by certain digital technologies to complete frame or burst intervals.

(g) Notwithstanding other technical requirements specified in this subpart, attenuation of emissions below the general emission limits in § 15.209 is not required.

(h) Where there is a transition between limits, the tighter limit shall apply at the transition point.

(i) Unlicensed PCS devices are subject to the radiofrequency radiation exposure requirements specified in §§ 1.1307(b), 2.1091 and 2.1093 of this chapter, as appropriate. All equipment shall be considered to operate in a “general population/uncontrolled” environment. Applications for equipment authorization of devices operating under this section must contain a statement confirming compliance with these requirements for both fundamental emissions and unwanted emissions. Technical information showing the basis for this statement must be submitted to the Commission upon request.

