(a) UTAM, Inc. is designated to coordinate and manage the transition of the 1910-1930 MHz band from the Private Operational-Fixed Microwave Service (OFS) operating under part 101 of this chapter to unlicensed PCS operations,

(b) Each application for certification of equipment operating under the provisions of this subpart must be accompanied by an affidavit from UTAM, Inc. certifying that the applicant is a participating member of UTAM, Inc. In the event a grantee fails to fulfill the obligations attendant to participation in UTAM, Inc., the Commission may invoke administrative sanctions as necessary to preclude continued marketing and installation of devices covered by the grant of certification, including but not limited to revoking certification.

(c) An application for certification of a PCS device that is deemed by UTAM, Inc. to be noncoordinatable will not be accepted until the Commission announces that a need for coordination no longer exists.

(d) A coordinatable PCS device is required to incorporate means that ensure that it cannot be activated until its location has been coordinated by UTAM, Inc. The application for certification shall contain an explanation of all measures taken to prevent unauthorized operation. This explanation shall include all procedural safeguards, such as the mandatory use of licensed technicians to install the equipment, and a complete description of all technical features controlling activation of the device.

(e) A coordinatable PCS device shall incorporate an automatic mechanism for disabling operation in the event it is moved outside the geographic area where its operation has been coordinated by UTAM, Inc. The application for certification shall contain a full description of the safeguards against unauthorized relocation and must satisfy the Commission that the safeguards cannot be easily defeated.

(f) At such time as the Commission deems that the need for coordination between unlicensed PCS operations and existing Part 101 Private Operational-Fixed Microwave Services ceases to exist, the disabling mechanism required by paragraph (e) of this section will no longer be required.
                                    

(g) Operations under the provisions of this subpart are required to protect systems in the Private Operational-Fixed Microwave Service operating within the 1850-1990 MHz band until the dates and conditions specified in §§ 101.69 through 101.73 of this chapter for termination of primary status. Interference protection is not required for part 101 stations in this band licensed on a secondary basis.

(h) The operator of a PCS device that is relocated from the coordinated area specified by UTAM, Inc., must cease operating the device until coordination for the new location is verified by UTAM, Inc.

