(a) The UWB bandwidth of an imaging system operating under the provisions of this section must be below 10.6 GHz.

(b) Operation under the provisions of this section is limited to GPRs and wall imaging systems operated for purposes associated with law enforcement, fire fighting, emergency rescue, scientific research, commercial mining, or construction.

(1) Parties operating this equipment must be eligible for licensing under the provisions of part 90 of this chapter.

(2) The operation of imaging systems under this section requires coordination, as detailed in ยง 15.525.

(c) A GPR that is designed to be operated while being hand held and a wall imaging system shall contain a manually operated switch that causes the transmitter to cease operation within 10 seconds of being released by the operator. In lieu of a switch located on the imaging system, it is permissible to operate an imaging system by remote control provided the imaging system ceases transmission within 10 seconds of the remote switch being released by the operator.

(d) The radiated emissions at or below 960 MHz from a device operating under the provisions of this section shall not exceed the emission levels in ยง 15.209. The radiated emissions above 960 MHz from a device operating under the provisions of this section shall not exceed the following average limits when measured using a resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz:

(e) In addition to the radiated emission limits specified in the table in paragraph (d) of this section, UWB transmitters operating under the provisions of this section shall not exceed the following average limits when measured using a resolution bandwidth of no less than 1 kHz:

(f) For UWB devices where the frequency at which the highest radiated emission occurs, fM, is above 960 MHz, there is a limit on the peak level of the emissions contained within a 50 MHz bandwidth centered on fM. That limit is 0 dBm EIRP. It is acceptable to employ a different resolution bandwidth, and a correspondingly different peak emission limit, following the procedures described in ยง 15.521.

