(a) The UWB bandwidth of an imaging system operating under the provisions of this section must be below 960 MHz or the center frequency, fC, and the frequency at which the highest radiated emission occurs, fM, must be contained between 1990 MHz and 10600 MHz.

(b) Operation under the provisions of this section is limited to through-wall imaging systems operated by law enforcement, emergency rescue or firefighting organizations that are under the authority of a local or state government.

(c) For through-wall imaging systems operating with the UWB bandwidth below 960 MHz:

(1) Parties operating this equipment must be eligible for licensing under the provisions of part 90 of this chapter.

(2) The operation of these imaging systems requires coordination, as detailed in § 15.525.

(3) The imaging system shall contain a manually operated switch that causes the transmitter to cease operation within 10 seconds of being released by the operator. In lieu of a switch located on the imaging system, it is permissible to operate an imaging system by remote control provided the imaging system ceases transmission within 10 seconds of the remote switch being released by the operator.

(4) The radiated emissions at or below 960 MHz shall not exceed the emission levels in § 15.209. The radiated emissions above 960 MHz shall not exceed the following average limits when measured using a resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz:

(5) In addition to the radiated emission limits specified in the table in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, emissions from these imaging systems shall not exceed the following average limits when measured using a resolution bandwidth of no less than 1 kHz:

(d) For equipment operating with fC and fM between 1990 MHz and 10600 MHz:

(1) Parties operating this equipment must hold a license issued by the Federal Communications Commission to operate a transmitter in the Public Safety Radio Pool under part 90 of this chapter. The license may be held by the organization for which the UWB operator works on a paid or volunteer basis.

(2) This equipment may be operated only for law enforcement applications, the providing of emergency services, and necessary training operations.

(3) The radiated emissions at or below 960 MHz shall not exceed the emission levels in § 15.209 of this chapter. The radiated emissions above 960 MHz shall not exceed the following average limits when measured using a resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz:

(4) In addition to the radiated emission limits specified in the paragraph (d)(3) of this section, emissions from these imaging systems shall not exceed the following average limits when measured using a resolution bandwidth of no less than 1 kHz:

(5) There is a limit on the peak level of the emissions contained within a 50 MHz bandwidth centered on the frequency at which the highest radiated emission occurs, fM. That limit is 0 dBm EIRP. It is acceptable to employ a different resolution bandwidth, and a correspondingly different peak emission limit, following the procedures described in § 15.521.

(e) Through-wall imaging systems operating under the provisions of this section shall bear the following or similar statement in a conspicuous location on the device: “Operation of this device is restricted to law enforcement, emergency rescue and firefighter personnel. Operation by any other party is a violation of 47 U.S.C. 301 and could subject the operator to serious legal penalties.”

