(a) Conducted emission limits. Access BPL is not subject to the conducted emission limits of § 15.107.

(b) Radiated emission limits—(1) Medium voltage power lines. (i) Access BPL systems that operate in the frequency range of 1.705 kHz to 30 MHz over medium voltage power lines shall comply with the radiated emission limits for intentional radiators provided in § 15.209.

(ii) Access BPL systems that operate in the frequency range above 30 MHz over medium voltage power lines shall comply with the radiated emission limits provided in § 15.109(b).

(2) Low voltage power lines. Access BPL systems that operate over low-voltage power lines, including those that operate over low-voltage lines that are connected to the in-building wiring, shall comply with the radiated emission limits provided in § 15.109(a) and (e).

(c) Interference Mitigation and Avoidance. (1) Access BPL systems shall incorporate adaptive interference mitigation techniques to remotely reduce power and adjust operating frequencies, in order to avoid site-specific, local use of the same spectrum by licensed services. These techniques may include adaptive or “notch” filtering, or complete avoidance of frequencies, or bands of frequencies, locally used by licensed radio operations.

(i) For frequencies below 30 MHz, when a notch filter is used to avoid interference to a specific frequency band, the Access BPL system shall be capable of attenuating emissions within that band to a level at least 25 dB below the applicable Part 15 limits.

(ii) For frequencies above 30 MHz, when a notch filter is used to avoid interference to a specific frequency band, the Access BPL system shall be capable of attenuating emissions within that band to a level at least 10 dB below the applicable part 15 limits.

(iii) At locations where an Access BPL operator attenuates radiated emissions from its operations in accordance with the above required capabilities, we will not require that operator to take further actions to resolve complaints of harmful interference to mobile operations.

(2) Access BPL systems shall comply with applicable radiated emission limits upon power-up following a fault condition, or during a start-up operation after a shut-off procedure, by the use of a non-volatile memory, or some other method, to immediately restore previous settings with programmed notches and excluded bands, to avoid time delay caused by the need for manual re-programming during which protected services may be vulnerable.

(3) Access BPL systems shall incorporate a remote-controllable shut-down feature to deactivate, from a central location, any unit found to cause harmful interference, if other interference mitigation techniques do not resolve the interference problem.

