(a) Available channel. A six-megahertz television channel, as specified in ยง 73.603 of this chapter, which is not being used by an authorized service at or near the same geographic location as the TVBD and is acceptable for use by an unlicensed device under the provisions of this subpart.

(b) Contact verification signal. An encoded signal broadcast by a fixed or Mode II device for reception by Mode I devices to which the fixed or Mode II device has provided a list of available channels for operation. Such signal is for the purpose of establishing that the Mode I device is still within the reception range of the fixed or Mode II device for purposes of validating the list of available channels used by the Mode I device and shall be encoded to ensure that the signal originates from the device that provided the list of available channels. A Mode I device may respond only to a contact verification signal from the fixed or Mode II device that provided the list of available channels on which it operates. A fixed or Mode II device shall provide the information needed by a Mode I device to decode the contact verification signal at the same time it provides the list of available channels.

(c) Fixed device. A TVBD that transmits and/or receives radiocommunication signals at a specified fixed location. A fixed TVBD may select channels for operation itself from a list of available channels provided by a TV bands database, initiate and operate a network by sending enabling signals to one or more fixed TVBDs and/or personal/portable TVBDs. Fixed devices may provide to a Mode I personal/portable device a list of available channels on which the Mode I device may operate under the rules, including available channels above 512 MHz (above TV channel 20) on which the fixed TVBD also may operate and a supplemental list of available channels above 512 MHz (above TV channel 20) that are adjacent to occupied TV channels on which the Mode I device, but not the fixed device, may operate.

(d) Geo-location capability. The capability of a TVBD to determine its geographic coordinates within the level of accuracy specified in ยง 15.711(b)(1), i.e. 50 meters. This capability is used with a TV bands database approved by the FCC to determine the availability of TV channels at a TVBD's location.

(e) Mode I personal/portable device. A personal/portable TVBD that does not use an internal geo-location capability and access to a TV bands database to obtain a list of available channels. A Mode I device must obtain a list of available channels on which it may operate from either a fixed TVBD or Mode II personal/portable TVBD. A Mode I device may not initiate a network of fixed and/or personal/portable TVBDs nor may it provide a list of available channels to another Mode I device for operation by such device.

(f) Mode II personal/portable device. A personal/portable TVBD that uses an internal geo-location capability and access to a TV bands database, either through a direct connection to the Internet or through an indirect connection to the Internet by way of fixed TVBD or another Mode II TVBD, to obtain a list of available channels. A Mode II device may select a channel itself and initiate and operate as part of a network of TVBDs, transmitting to and receiving from one or more fixed TVBDs or personal/portable TVBDs. A Mode II personal/portable device may provide its list of available channels to a Mode I personal/portable device for operation on by the Mode I device.

(g) Network initiation. The process by which a fixed or Mode II TVBD sends control signals to one or more fixed TVBDs or personal/portable TVBDs and allows them to begin communications.

(h) Operating channel. An available channel used by a TVBD for transmission and/or reception.

(i) Personal/portable device. A TVBD that transmits and/or receives radiocommunication signals at unspecified locations that may change. Personal/portable devices may only transmit on available channels in the frequency bands 512-608 MHz (TV channels 21-36) and 614-698 MHz (TV channels 38-51).

(j) Receive site. The location where the signal of a full service television station is received for rebroadcast by a television translator or low power TV station, including a Class A TV station, or for distribution by a Multiple Video Program Distributor (MVPD) as defined in 47 U.S.C. 602(13).

(k) Sensing only device. A personal/portable TVBD that uses spectrum sensing to determine a list of available channels. Sensing only devices may transmit on any available channels in the frequency bands 512-608 MHz (TV channels 21-36) and 614-698 MHz (TV channels 38-51).

(l) Spectrum sensing. A process whereby a TVBD monitors a television channel to detect whether the channel is occupied by a radio signal or signals from authorized services.

(m) Television band device (TVBD). Intentional radiators that operate on an unlicensed basis on available channels in the broadcast television frequency bands at 54-60 MHz (TV channel 2), 76-88 MHz (TV channels 5 and 6), 174-216 MHz (TV channels 7-13), 470-608 MHz (TV channels 14-36) and 614-698 MHz (TV channels 38-51).

(n) TV bands database. A database system that maintains records of all authorized services in the TV frequency bands, is capable of determining the available channels as a specific geographic location and provides lists of available channels to TVBDs that have been certified under the Commission's equipment authorization procedures. TV bands databases that provide lists of available channels to TVBDs must receive approval by the Commission.

