The Commission will designate one or more entities to administer the TV bands database(s). The Commission may, at its discretion, permit the functions of a TV bands database, such as a data repository, registration, and query services, to be divided among multiple entities; however, it will designate specific entities to be a database administrator responsible for coordination of the overall functioning of a database and providing services to TVBDs. Each database administrator designated by the Commission shall:

(a) Maintain a database that contains the information described in § 15.713.

(b) Establish a process for acquiring and storing in the database necessary and appropriate information from the Commission's databases and synchronizing the database with the current Commission databases at least once a week to include newly licensed facilities or any changes to licensed facilities.

(c) Establish a process for registering fixed TVBDs and registering and including in the database facilities entitled to protection but not contained in a Commission database, including MVPD receive sites.

(d) Establish a process for registering facilities where part 74 low power auxiliary stations are used on a regular basis.

(e) Provide accurate lists of available channels to fixed and personal/portable TVBDs that submit to it the information required under §§ 15.713(e), (f), and (g) based on their geographic location and provide accurate lists of available channels to fixed and Mode II devices requesting lists of available channels for Mode I devices. Database administrators may allow prospective operators of TV bands devices to query the database and determine whether there are vacant channels at a particular location.

(f) Establish protocols and procedures to ensure that all communications and interactions between the TV bands database and TVBDs are accurate and secure and that unauthorized parties cannot access or alter the database or the list of available channels sent to a TVBD consistent with the provisions of § 15.713(i).

(g) Make its services available to all unlicensed TV band device users on a non-discriminatory basis.

(h) Provide service for a five-year term. This term can be renewed at the Commission's discretion.

(i) Respond in a timely manner to verify, correct and/or remove, as appropriate, data in the event that the Commission or a party brings claim of inaccuracies in the database to its attention. This requirement applies only to information that the Commission requires to be stored in the database.

(j) Transfer its database along with the IP addresses and URLs used to access the database and list of registered Fixed TVBDs, to another designated entity in the event it does not continue as the database administrator at the end of its term. It may charge a reasonable price for such conveyance.

(k) The database must have functionality such that upon request from the Commission it can indicate that no channels are available when queried by a specific TVBD or model of TVBDs.

(l) If more than one database is developed, the database administrators shall cooperate to develop a standardized process for providing on a daily basis or more often, as appropriate, the data collected for the facilities listed in § 15.713(b)(2) to all other TV bands databases to ensure consistency in the records of protected facilities.

(m) Provide a means to make all information the rules require the database to contain publicly available, including fixed TVBD registrations and voluntarily submitted protected entity information.

