(a) Power limits for TVBDs. (1) For fixed TVBDs, the maximum power delivered to the transmitting antenna shall not exceed one watt per 6 megahertz of bandwidth on which the device operates. The power delivered to the transmitting antenna is the maximum conducted output power reduced by the signal loss experienced in the cable used to connect the transmitter to the transmit antenna. If transmitting antennas of directional gain greater than 6 dBi are used, the maximum conducted output power shall be reduced by the amount in dB that the directional gain of the antenna exceeds 6 dBi.

(2) For personal/portable TVBDs, the maximum EIRP shall not exceed 100 milliwatts (20 dBm) per 6 megahertz of bandwidth on which the device operates with the following exceptions; Mode II personal/portable TVBDs that do not meet the adjacent channel separation requirements in § 15.712(a) and Mode I personal/portable TVBDs that operate on available channels (provided by a Mode II TVBD) that do not meet the adjacent channel separation requirements of § 15.712(a) are limited to a maximum EIRP of 40 milliwatts (16 dBm) per 6 megahertz of bandwidth on which the device operates.

(3) TVBDs shall incorporate transmit power control to limit their operating power to the minimum necessary for successful communication. Applicants for equipment certification shall include a description of a device's transmit power control feature mechanism.

(4) Maximum conducted output power is the total transmit power over the occupied bandwidth delivered to all antennas and antenna elements averaged across all symbols in the signaling alphabet when the transmitter is operating at its maximum power control level. Power must be summed across all antennas and antenna elements. The average must not include any time intervals during which the transmitter is off or is transmitting at a reduced power level. If multiple modes of operation are possible (e.g., alternative modulation methods), the maximum conducted output power is the highest total transmit power occurring in any mode.

(5) The power spectral density conducted from the TVBD to the antenna shall not be greater than the following values when measured in any 100 kHz band during any time interval of continuous transmission:

(i) Fixed devices: 12.2 dBm.

(ii) Personal/portable devices operating adjacent to occupied TV channels: −1.8 dBm.

(iii) Sensing-only devices: −0.8 dBm.

(iii) All other personal/portable devices: 2.2 dBm.

(6) TVBDs shall incorporate adequate security measures to prevent the TVBD from accessing databases not approved by the FCC and to ensure that unauthorized parties can not modify the TVBD or configure its control features to operate inconsistent with the rules and protection criteria set forth in this subpart.

(b) Antenna requirements. (1) All transmit and receive antenna(s) of personal/portable devices shall be permanently attached.

(2) The transmit antenna used with fixed devices may not be more than 30 meters above the ground. In addition, fixed devices may not be located at sites where the height above average terrain (HAAT) at ground level is more than 76 meters. The ground level HAAT is to be calculated by the TV bands database that the device contacts for available channels using computational software employing the methodology in § 73.684(d) of this chapter.

(3) For personal/portable TVBDs operating under § 15.717, the provisions of § 15.204(c)(4) do not apply to an antenna used for transmission and reception/spectrum sensing.

(4) For personal/portable TVBDs operating under § 15.717 that incorporate a separate sensing antenna, compliance testing shall be performed using the lowest gain antenna for each type of antenna to be certified.

(c) Emission limits for TVBDs. (1) In the television channels immediately adjacent to the channel in which a TVBD is operating, emissions from the TVBD shall be at least 72.8 dB below the highest average power in the TV channel in which the device is operating.

(2) Emission measurements in the channel of operation shall be performed over a reference bandwidth of 6 megahertz with an average detector. Emission measurements in the adjacent channels shall be performed using a minimum resolution bandwidth of 100 kHz with an average detector. A narrower resolution bandwidth may be employed near the band edge, when necessary, provided the measured energy is integrated to show the total power over 100 kHz.

(3) At frequencies beyond the television channels immediately adjacent to the channel in which the TVBD is operating, the radiated emissions from TVBDs shall meet the requirements of § 15.209.

(4) Emissions in the band 602-620 MHz must also comply with the following field strength limits at a distance of one meter.

(5) TVBDs connected to the AC power line are required to comply with the conducted limits set forth in § 15.207.
                                    

(d) Compliance with radio frequency exposure requirements. To ensure compliance with the Commission's radio frequency exposure requirements in §§ 1.1307(b), 2.1091 and 2.1093 of this chapter, fixed TVBDs shall be accompanied by instructions on measures to take to ensure that persons maintain a distance of at least 40 cm from the device, as well as any necessary hardware that may be needed to implement that protection. These instructions shall be submitted with the application for certification. Personal/portable TVBDs that meet the definition of portable devices under § 2.1093 of this chapter and that operate with a source-based time-averaged output of less than 20 mW will not be subject to routine evaluation for compliance with the radio frequency exposure guidelines, while devices that operate with a source-based time-average output power greater than 20 mW will be subject to the routine evaluation requirements.

