(a) Effective July 1, 1996, the owner of any proposed or existing antenna structure that requires notice of proposed construction to the Federal Aviation Administration must register the structure with the Commission. This includes those structures used as part of stations licensed by the Commission for the transmission of radio energy, or to be used as part of a cable television head end system. If a Federal Government antenna structure is to be used by a Commission licensee, the structure must be registered with the Commission.

(1) For a proposed antenna structure or alteration of an existing antenna structure, the owner must register the structure prior to construction or alteration.

(2) For an existing antenna structure that had been assigned painting or lighting requirements prior to July 1, 1996, the owner must register the structure prior to July 1, 1998.

(3) For a structure that did not originally fall under the definition of “antenna structure,” the owner must register the structure prior to hosting a Commission licensee.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, each owner must file FCC Form 854 with the Commission. Additionally, each owner of a proposed structure referred to in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(3) of this section must submit a valid FAA determination of “no hazard.” In order to be considered valid by the Commission, the FAA determination of “no hazard” must not have expired prior to the date on which FCC Form 854 is received by the Commission. The height of the structure will include the highest point of the structure including any obstruction lighting or lighting arrester.

(c) Each prospective applicant must complete the environmental notification process described in this paragraph, except as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(1) Exceptions from the environmental notification process. Completion of the environmental notification process is not required when FCC Form 854 is submitted solely for the following purposes:

(i) For notification only, such as to report a change in ownership or contact information, or the dismantlement of an antenna structure;

(ii) For a reduction in height of an antenna structure or an increase in height that does not constitute a substantial increase in size as defined in paragraph I(C)(1)-(3) of Appendix B to part 1 of this chapter, provided that there is no construction or excavation more than 30 feet beyond the existing antenna structure property;

(iii) For removal of lighting from an antenna structure or adoption of a more preferred or equally preferred lighting style. For this purpose lighting styles are ranked as follows (with the most preferred lighting style listed first and the least preferred listed last): no lights; FAA Lighting Styles that do not involve use of red steady lights; and FAA Lighting Styles that involve use of red steady lights. A complete description of each FAA Lighting Style and the manner in which it is to be deployed can be found in the current version of FAA, U.S. Dept. of Transportation, Advisory Circular: Obstruction Marking and Lighting, AC 70/7460;

(iv) For replacement of an existing antenna structure at the same geographic location that does not require an Environmental Assessment (EA) under § 1.1307(a) through (d) of this chapter, provided the new structure will not use a less preferred lighting style, there will be no substantial increase in size as defined in paragraph I(C)(1)-(3) of Appendix B to part 1 of this chapter, and there will be no construction or excavation more than 30 feet beyond the existing antenna structure property;

(v) For any other change that does not alter the physical structure, lighting, or geographic location of an existing structure; or

(vi) For construction, modification, or replacement of an antenna structure on Federal land where another Federal agency has assumed responsibility for evaluating the potentially significant environmental effect of the proposed antenna structure on the quality of the human environment and for invoking any required environmental impact statement process, or for any other structure where another Federal agency has assumed such responsibilities pursuant to a written agreement with the Commission. See § 1.1311(e) of this chapter.

(2) Commencement of the environmental notification process. The prospective applicant shall commence the environmental notification process by filing information about the proposed antenna structure with the Commission. This information shall include, at a minimum, all of the information required on FCC Form 854 regarding ownership and contact information, geographic location, and height, as well as the type of structure and anticipated lighting. The Wireless Telecommunications Bureau may utilize a partially completed FCC Form 854 to collect this information.

(3) Local notice. The prospective applicant must provide local notice of the proposed new antenna structure or modification of an existing antenna structure through publication in a newspaper of general circulation or other appropriate means, such as through the public notification provisions of the relevant local zoning process. The local notice shall contain all of the descriptive information as to geographic location, configuration, height and anticipated lighting specifications reflected in the submission required pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section. It must also provide information as to the procedure for interested persons to file Requests for environmental processing pursuant to §§ 1.1307(c) and 1.1313(b) of this chapter, including any assigned file number, and state that such Requests may only raise environmental concerns.

(4) National notice. On or after the local notice date provided by the prospective applicant, the Commission shall post notification of the proposed construction on its Web site. This posting shall include the information contained in the initial filing with the Commission or a link to such information. The posting shall remain on the Commission's Web site for a period of 30 days.

(5) Requests for environmental processing. Any Request filed by an interested person pursuant to §§ 1.1307(c) and 1.1313(b) of this chapter must be received by the Commission no later than 30 days after the proposed antenna structure goes on notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(4) of this section. The Wireless Telecommunications Bureau shall establish by public notice the process for filing Requests for environmental processing and responsive pleadings consistent with the following provisions.

(i) Service and pleading cycle. The interested person or entity shall serve a copy of its Request on the prospective ASR applicant pursuant to § 1.47 of this chapter. Oppositions may be filed no later than 10 days after the time for filing Requests has expired. Replies to oppositions may be filed no later than 5 days after the time for filing oppositions has expired. Oppositions shall be served upon the Requester, and replies shall be served upon the prospective applicant.

(ii) Content. An Environmental Request must state why the interested person or entity believes that the proposed antenna structure or physical modification of an existing antenna structure may have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment for which an Environmental Assessment must be considered by the Commission as required by § 1.1307 of this chapter, or why an Environmental Assessment submitted by the prospective ASR applicant does not adequately evaluate the potentially significant environmental effects of the proposal. The Request must be submitted as a written petition filed either electronically or by hard copy setting forth in detail the reasons supporting Requester's contentions.

(6) Amendments. The prospective applicant must file an amendment to report any substantial change in the information provided to the Commission. An amendment will not require further local or national notice if the only reported change is a reduction in the height of the proposed new or modified antenna structure; if proposed lighting is removed or changed to a more preferred or equally preferred lighting style as set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section; or if the amendment reports only administrative changes that are not subject to the requirements specified in this paragraph. All other changes to the physical structure, lighting, or geographic location data for a proposed registered antenna structure require additional local and national notice and a new period for filing Requests pursuant to paragraphs (c)(3), (c)(4), and (c)(5) of this section.

(7) Environmental Assessments. If an Environmental Assessment (EA) is required under § 1.1307 of this chapter, the antenna structure registration applicant shall attach the EA to its environmental submission, regardless of any requirement that the EA also be attached to an associated service-specific license or construction permit application. The contents of an EA are described in §§ 1.1308 and 1.1311 of this chapter. The EA may be provided either with the initial environmental submission or as an amendment. If the EA is submitted as an amendment, the Commission shall post notification on its Web site for another 30 days pursuant to paragraph (c)(4) of this section and accept additional Requests pursuant to paragraph (c)(5) of this section. However, additional local notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall not be required unless information has changed pursuant to paragraph (c)(6) of this section. The applicant shall serve a copy of the EA upon any party that has previously filed a Request pursuant to paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(8) Disposition. The processing Bureau shall resolve all environmental issues, in accordance with the environmental regulations (47 CFR 1.1301 through 1.1319) specified in part 1 of this chapter, before the tower owner, or the first tenant licensee acting on behalf of the owner, may complete the antenna structure registration application. In a case where no EA is submitted, the Bureau shall notify the applicant whether an EA is required under § 1.1307(c) or (d) of this chapter. In a case where an EA is submitted, the Bureau shall either grant a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) or notify the applicant that further environmental processing is required pursuant to § 1.1308 of this chapter. Upon filing the completed antenna structure registration application, the applicant shall certify that the construction will not have a significant environmental impact, unless an Environmental Impact Statement is prepared pursuant to § 1.1314 of this chapter.

(9) Transition rule. An antenna structure registration application that is pending with the Commission as of the effective date of this paragraph (c) shall not be required to complete the environmental notification process set forth in this paragraph. The Commission will publish a document in the Federal Register announcing the effective date. However, if such an application is amended in a manner that would require additional notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(6) of this section, then such notice shall be required.

(d) If a final FAA determination of “no hazard” is not submitted along with FCC Form 854, processing of the registration may be delayed or disapproved.

(e) If the owner of the antenna structure cannot file FCC Form 854 because it is subject to a denial of Federal benefits under the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, 21 U.S.C. 862, the first tenant licensee authorized to locate on the structure (excluding tenants that no longer occupy the structure) must register the structure using FCC Form 854, and provide a copy of the Antenna Structure Registration (FCC Form 854R) to the owner. The owner remains responsible for providing a copy of FCC Form 854R to all tenant licensees on the structure and for posting the registration number as required by paragraph (g) of this section.

(f) The Commission shall issue, to the registrant, FCC Form 854R, Antenna Structure Registration, which assigns a unique Antenna Structure Registration Number. The structure owner shall immediately provide a copy of Form 854R to each tenant licensee and permittee.

(g) Except as described in paragraph (h) of this section, the Antenna Structure Registration Number must be displayed in a conspicuous place so that it is readily visible near the base of the antenna structure. Materials used to display the Antenna Structure Registration Number must be weather-resistant and of sufficient size to be easily seen at the base of the antenna structure.

(h) The owner is not required to post the Antenna Structure Registration Number in cases where a federal, state, or local government entity provides written notice to the owner that such a posting would detract from the appearance of a historic landmark. In this case, the owner must make the Antenna Structure Registration Number available to representatives of the Commission, the FAA, and the general public upon reasonable demand.

