A notification to the Federal Aviation Administration is required, except as set forth in ยง 17.14, for any of the following construction or alteration:

(a) Any construction or alteration of more than 60.96 meters (200 feet) in height above ground level at its site.

(b) Any construction or alteration of greater height than an imaginary surface extending outward and upward at one of the following slopes:

(1) 100 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 6.10 kilometers (20,000 feet) from the nearest point of the nearest runway of each airport specified in paragraph (d) of this section with at least one runway more than 0.98 kilometers (3,200 feet) in actual length, excluding heliports.

(2) 50 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 3.05 kilometers (10,000 feet) from the nearest point of the nearest runway of each airport specified in paragraph (d) of this section with its longest runway no more than 0.98 kilometers (3,200 feet) in actual length, excluding heliports.

(3) 25 to 1 for a horizontal distance of 1.52 kilometers (5,000 feet) from the nearest point of the nearest landing and takeoff area of each heliport specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) When requested by the FAA, any construction or alteration that would be in an instrument approach area (defined in the FAA standards governing instrument approach procedures) and available information indicates it might exceed an obstruction standard of the FAA.

(d) Any construction or alteration on any of the following airports (including heliports):

(1) An airport that is available for public use and is listed in the Airport Directory of the current Airman's Information Manual or in either the Alaska or Pacific Airman's Guide and Chart Supplement.

(2) An airport under construction, that is the subject of a notice or proposal on file with the Federal Aviation Administration, and except for military airports, it is clearly indicated that the airport will be available for public use.

(3) An airport that is operated by an armed force of the United States.
                                    

