(a) Each antenna farm area will be established by an appropriate rulemaking proceeding, which may be commenced by the Commission on its own motion after consultation with the FAA, upon request of the FAA, or as a result of a petition filed by any interested person. After receipt of a petition from an interested person disclosing sufficient reasons to justify institution of a rulemaking proceeding, the Commission will request the advice of the FAA with respect to the considerations of menace to air navigation in terms of air safety which may be presented by the proposal. The written communication received from the FAA in response to the Commission's request shall be placed in the Commission's public rulemaking file containing the petition, and interested persons shall be allowed a period of 30 days within which to file statements with respect thereto. Such statements shall also be filed with the Administrator of the FAA with proof of such filing to be established in accordance with ยง 1.47 of this chapter. The Administrator of the FAA shall have a period of 15 days within which to file responses to such statements. If the Commission, upon consideration of the matters presented to it in accordance with the above procedure, is satisfied that establishment of the proposed antenna farm would constitute a menace to air navigation for reasons of air safety, rulemaking proceedings will not be instituted. If rulemaking proceedings are instituted, any person filing comments therein which concern the question of whether the proposed antenna farm will constitute a menace to air navigation shall file a copy of the comments with the Administrator of the FAA. Proof of such filing shall be established in accordance with ยง 1.47 of this chapter.

(b) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to mean that only one antenna farm area will be designated for a community. The Commission will consider on a case-by-case basis whether or not more than one antenna farm area shall be designated for a particular community.

