(a) No Commissioner shall have a pecuniary interest in any hearing or proceeding in which he participates. (47 U.S.C. 154(j).)

(b)(1) Section 4(b) of the Communications Act, at 47 U.S.C. 154(b)(2)(A), provides:
              

(2) To determine whether an entity has a significant interest in communications related activities that are subject to Commission regulations, the Commission shall consider, without excluding other relevant factors, the criteria in section 4(b) of the Communications Act, at 47 U.S.C. 154(b)(3). These criteria include:

(i) The revenues and efforts directed toward the telecommunications aspect of the business;

(ii) The extent of Commission regulation over the entity involved;

(iii) The potential economic impact of any Commission action on that particular entity; and

(iv) The public perception regarding the business activities of the company.

(3)(i) Section 4(b) of the Communications Act, at 47 U.S.C. 154(b)(2)(B)(i), permits the Commission to waive the prohibitions at 47 U.S.C. 154(b)(2)(A). The Act's waiver provision at 47 U.S.C. 154(b)(2)(B)(i) provides:
              

(ii)(A) Requests for waiver of the provisions of 47 U.S.C. 154(b)(2)(A) may be submitted by an employee to the Head of the employee's Office or Bureau, who will endorse the request with an appropriate recommendation and forward the request to the Designated Agency Ethics Official. The Designated Agency Ethics Official has delegated authority to waive the applicability of 47 U.S.C. 154(b)(2)(A).

(B) All requests for waiver shall be in writing and in the required detail. The dollar value for the financial interest sought to be waived shall be expressed explicitly or in categories of value provided at 5 CFR 2634.301(d).

(C) Copies of all waiver requests and the action taken thereon shall be maintained by the Designated Agency Ethics Official. In any case in which the Commission exercises the waiver authority established in section 4(b) of the Communications Act, the Commission shall publish notice of such action in the Federal Register and shall furnish notice of such action to the appropriate committees of each House of the Congress. Each such notice shall include information regarding the identity of the person receiving the waiver, the position held by such person, and the nature of the financial interests which are the subject of the waiver.

