(a) The responsible party, as defined in ยง 2.909, must warrant that each unit of equipment marketed under a Declaration of Conformity is identical to the unit tested and found acceptable with the standards and that the records maintained by the responsible party continue to reflect the equipment being produced under the Declaration of Conformity within the variation that can be expected due to quantity production and testing on a statistical basis.

(b) The responsible party, if different from the manufacturer, may upon receiving a written statement from the manufacturer that the equipment complies with the appropriate technical standards rely on the manufacturer or independent testing agency to determine compliance. However, the test records required by ยง 2.1075 shall be in the English language and shall be made available to the Commission upon a reasonable request in accordance with the provisions of ยง 2.1076.

(c) In the case of transfer of control of the equipment, as in the case of sale or merger of the responsible party, the new responsible party shall bear the responsibility of continued compliance of the equipment.

(d) Equipment shall be retested to demonstrate continued compliance with the applicable technical standards if any modifications or changes that could adversely affect the emanation characteristics of the equipment are made by the responsible party. The responsible party bears responsibility for the continued compliance of subsequently produced equipment.

(e) If any modifications or changes are made by anyone other than the responsible party for the Declaration of Conformity, the party making the modifications or changes, if located within the U.S., becomes the new responsible party. The new responsible party must comply with all provisions for the Declaration of Conformity, including having test data on file demonstrating that the product continues to comply with all of the applicable technical standards.

