(a) The International Table of Frequency Allocations is subdivided into the Region 1 Table (column 1 of § 2.106), the Region 2 Table (column 2 of § 2.106), and the Region 3 Table (column 3 of § 2.106). The International Table is included for informational purposes only.

(b) Regions. For the allocation of frequencies the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) has divided the world into three Regions 1
                                     as shown in Figure 1 of this section and described as follows:

(1) Region 1. Region 1 includes the area limited on the east by line A (lines A, B and C are defined below) and on the west by line B, excluding any of the territory of the Islamic Republic of Iran which lies between these limits. It also includes the whole of the territory of Armenia, Azerbaijan, the Russian Federation, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Turkey and Ukraine and the area to the north of the Russian Federation which lies between lines A and C.

(2) Region 2. Region 2 includes the area limited on the east by line B and on the west by line C.

(3) Region 3. Region 3 includes the area limited on the east by line C and on the west by line A, except any of the territory of Armenia, Azerbaijan, the Russian Federation, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Turkey and Ukraine and the area to the north of the Russian Federation. It also includes that part of the territory of the Islamic Republic of Iran lying outside of those limits.

(4) The lines A, B and C are defined as follows:

(i) Line A. Line A extends from the North Pole along meridian 40° East of Greenwich to parallel 40° North; thence by great circle arc to the intersection of meridian 60° East and the Tropic of Cancer; thence along the meridian 60° East to the South Pole.

(ii) Line B. Line B extends from the North Pole along meridian 10° West of Greenwich to its intersection with parallel 72° North; thence by great circle arc to the intersection of meridian 50° West and parallel 40° North; thence by great circle arc to the intersection of meridian 20° West and parallel 10° South; thence along meridian 20° West to the South Pole.

(iii) Line C. Line C extends from the North Pole by great circle arc to the intersection of parallel 65°30′ North with the international boundary in Bering Strait; thence by great circle arc to the intersection of meridian 165° East of Greenwich and parallel 50° North; thence by great circle arc to the intersection of meridian 170° West and parallel 10° North; thence along parallel 10° North to its intersection with meridian 120° West; thence along meridian 120° West to the South Pole.

(c) Areas. To further assist in the international allocation of the radio spectrum, the ITU has established five special geographical areas and they are defined as follows:

(1) The term “African Broadcasting Area” means:

(i) African countries, parts of countries, territories and groups of territories situated between the parallels 40° South and 30° North;

(ii) Islands in the Indian Ocean west of meridian 60° East of Greenwich, situated between the parallel 40° South and the great circle arc joining the points 45° East, 11°30′ North and 60° East, 15° North; and

(iii) Islands in the Atlantic Ocean east of line B, situated between the parallels 40° South and 30° North.

(2) The “European Broadcasting Area” is bounded on the west by the western boundary of Region 1, on the east by the meridian 40° East of Greenwich and on the south by the parallel 30° North so as to include the northern part of Saudi Arabia and that part of those countries bordering the Mediterranean within these limits. In addition, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia and those parts of the territories of Iraq, Jordan, Syrian Arab Republic, Turkey and Ukraine lying outside the above limits are included in the European Broadcasting Area.

(3) The “European Maritime Area” is bounded to the north by a line extending along parallel 72° North from its intersection with meridian 55° East of Greenwich to its intersection with meridian 5° West, then along meridian 5° West to its intersection with parallel 67° North, thence along parallel 67° North to its intersection with meridian 32° West; to the west by a line extending along meridian 32° West to its intersection with parallel 30° North; to the south by a line extending along parallel 30° North to its intersection with meridian 43° East; to the east by a line extending along meridian 43° East to its intersection with parallel 60° North, thence along parallel 60° North to its intersection with meridian 55° East and thence along meridian 55° East to its intersection with parallel 72° North.

(4) The “Tropical Zone” (see Figure 1 of this section) is defined as:

(i) The whole of that area in Region 2 between the Tropics of Cancer and Capricorn.

(ii) The whole of that area in Regions 1 and 3 contained between the parallels 30° North and 35° South with the addition of:

(A) The area contained between the meridians 40° East and 80° East of Greenwich and the parallels 30° North and 40° North; and

(B) That part of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya north of parallel 30° North.

(iii) In Region 2, the Tropical Zone may be extended to parallel 33° North, subject to special agreements between the countries concerned in that Region (see Article 6 of the ITU Radio Regulations).

(5) A sub-Region is an area consisting of two or more countries in the same Region.

(d) Categories of services and allocations. (1) Primary and secondary services. Where, in a box of the International Table in § 2.106, a band is indicated as allocated to more than one service, either on a worldwide or Regional basis, such services are listed in the following order:

(i) Services the names of which are printed in “capitals” (example: FIXED); these are called “primary” services; and

(ii) Services the names of which are printed in “normal characters” (example: Mobile); these are called “secondary” services (see paragraph (d)(3) of this section).

(2) Additional remarks shall be printed in normal characters (example: MOBILE except aeronautical mobile).

(3) Stations of a secondary service:

(i) Shall not cause harmful interference to stations of primary services to which frequencies are already assigned or to which frequencies may be assigned at a later date;

(ii) Cannot claim protection from harmful interference from stations of a primary service to which frequencies are already assigned or may be assigned at a later date; and

(iii) Can claim protection, however, from harmful interference from stations of the same or other secondary service(s) to which frequencies may be assigned at a later date.

(4) Where a band is indicated in a footnote of the International Table as allocated to a service “on a secondary basis” in an area smaller than a Region, or in a particular country, this is a secondary service (see paragraph (d)(3) of this section).

(5) Where a band is indicated in a footnote of the International Table as allocated to a service “on a primary basis”, in an area smaller than a Region, or in a particular country, this is a primary service only in that area or country.

(e) Additional allocations. (1) Where a band is indicated in a footnote of the International Table as “also allocated” to a service in an area smaller than a Region, or in a particular country, this is an “additional” allocation, i.e. an allocation which is added in this area or in this country to the service or services which are indicated in the International Table.

(2) If the footnote does not include any restriction on the service or services concerned apart from the restriction to operate only in a particular area or country, stations of this service or these services shall have equality of right to operate with stations of the other primary service or services indicated in the International Table.

(3) If restrictions are imposed on an additional allocation in addition to the restriction to operate only in a particular area or country, this is indicated in the footnote of the International Table.

(f) Alternative allocations. (1) Where a band is indicated in a footnote of the International Table as “allocated” to one or more services in an area smaller than a Region, or in a particular country, this is an “alternative” allocation, i.e. an allocation which replaces, in this area or in this country, the allocation indicated in the Table.

(2) If the footnote does not include any restriction on stations of the service or services concerned, apart from the restriction to operate only in a particular area or country, these stations of such a service or services shall have an equality of right to operate with stations of the primary service or services, indicated in the International Table, to which the band is allocated in other areas or countries.

(3) If restrictions are imposed on stations of a service to which an alternative allocation is made, in addition to the restriction to operate only in a particular country or area, this is indicated in the footnote.

(g) Miscellaneous provisions. (1) Where it is indicated in the International Table that a service or stations in a service may operate in a specific frequency band subject to not causing harmful interference to another service or to another station in the same service, this means also that the service which is subject to not causing harmful interference cannot claim protection from harmful interference caused by the other service or other station in the same service.

(2) Where it is indicated in the International Table that a service or stations in a service may operate in a specific frequency band subject to not claiming protection from another service or from another station in the same service, this means also that the service which is subject to not claiming protection shall not cause harmful interference to the other service or other station in the same service.

(3) Except if otherwise specified in a footnote, the term “fixed service”, where appearing in the International Table, does not include systems using ionospheric scatter propagation.

(h) Description of the International Table of Frequency Allocations. (1) The heading of the International Table includes three columns, each of which corresponds to one of the Regions (see paragraph (b) of this section). Where an allocation occupies the whole of the width of the Table or only one or two of the three columns, this is a worldwide allocation or a Regional allocation, respectively.

(2) The frequency band referred to in each allocation is indicated in the left-hand top corner of the part of the Table concerned.

(3) Within each of the categories specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, services are listed in alphabetical order according to the French language. The order of listing does not indicate relative priority within each category.

(4) In the case where there is a parenthetical addition to an allocation in the International Table, that service allocation is restricted to the type of operation so indicated.

(5) The footnote references which appear in the International Table below the allocated service or services apply to more than one of the allocated services, or to the whole of the allocation concerned.

(6) The footnote references which appear to the right of the name of a service are applicable only to that particular service.

(7) In certain cases, the names of countries appearing in the footnotes have been simplified in order to shorten the text.
                                    

