(a) If a product must be tested and authorized under a Declaration of Conformity, a compliance information statement shall be supplied with the product at the time of marketing or importation, containing the following information:

(1) Identification of the product, e.g., name and model number;

(2) A statement, similar to that contained in ยง 15.19(a)(3) of this chapter, that the product complies with part 15 of this chapters; and

(3) The identification, by name, address and telephone number, of the responsible party, as defined in ยง 2.909. The responsible party for a Declaration of Conformity must be located within the United States.

(b) If a product is assembled from modular components that, by themselves, are authorized under a Declaration of Conformity and/or a grant of certification, and the assembled product is also subject to authorization under a Declaration of Conformity but, in accordance with the applicable regulations, does not require additional testing, the product shall be supplied, at the time of marketing or importation, with a compliance information statement containing the following information:

(1) Identification of the assembled product, e.g., name and model number.

(2) Identification of the modular components used in the assembly. A modular component authorized under a Declaration of Conformity shall be identified as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. A modular component authorized under a grant of certification shall be identified by name and model number (if applicable) along with the FCC Identifier number.

(3) A statement that the product complies with part 15 of this chapter.

(4) The identification, by name, address and telephone number, of the responsible party who assembled the product from modular components, as defined in ยง 2.909. The responsible party for a Declaration of Conformity must be located within the United States.

(5) Copies of the compliance information statements for each modular component used in the system that is authorized under a Declaration of Conformity.

(c) The compliance information statement shall be included in the user's manual or as a separate sheet. In cases where the manual is provided only in a form other than paper, such as on a computer disk or over the Internet, the information required by this section may be included in the manual in that alternative form, provided the user can reasonably be expected to have the capability to access information in that form.

