(a) The frequency stability shall be measured with variation of ambient temperature as follows:

(1) From −30° to +50° centigrade for all equipment except that specified in paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) of this section.

(2) From −20° to +50° centigrade for equipment to be licensed for use in the Maritime Services under part 80 of this chapter, except for Class A, B, and S Emergency Position Indicating Radiobeacons (EPIRBS), and equipment to be licensed for use above 952 MHz at operational fixed stations in all services, stations in the Local Television Transmission Service and Point-to-Point Microwave Radio Service under part 21 of this chapter, equipment licensed for use aboard aircraft in the Aviation Services under part 87 of this chapter, and equipment authorized for use in the Family Radio Service under part 95 of this chapter.

(3) From 0° to +50° centigrade for equipment to be licensed for use in the Radio Broadcast Services under part 73 of this chapter.

(b) Frequency measurements shall be made at the extremes of the specified temperature range and at intervals of not more than 10° centigrade through the range. A period of time sufficient to stabilize all of the components of the oscillator circuit at each temperature level shall be allowed prior to frequency measurement. The short term transient effects on the frequency of the transmitter due to keying (except for broadcast transmitters) and any heating element cycling normally occurring at each ambient temperature level also shall be shown. Only the portion or portions of the transmitter containing the frequency determining and stabilizing circuitry need be subjected to the temperature variation test.

(c) In addition to all other requirements of this section, the following information is required for equipment incorporating heater type crystal oscillators to be used in mobile stations, for which type acceptance is first requested after March 25, 1974, except for battery powered, hand carried, portable equipment having less than 3 watts mean output power.
                

(1) Measurement data showing variation in transmitter output frequency from a cold start and the elapsed time necessary for the frequency to stabilize within the applicable tolerance. Tests shall be made after temperature stabilization at each of the ambient temperature levels; the lower temperature limit, 0° centigrade and +30° centigrade with no primary power applied.

(2) Beginning at each temperature level specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the frequency shall be measured within one minute after application of primary power to the transmitter and at intervals of no more than one minute thereafter until ten minutes have elapsed or until sufficient measurements are obtained to indicate clearly that the frequency has stabilized within the applicable tolerance, whichever time period is greater. During each test, the ambient temperature shall not be allowed to rise more than 10° centigrade above the respective beginning ambient temperature level.

(3) The elapsed time necessary for the frequency to stabilize within the applicable tolerance from each beginning ambient temperature level as determined from the tests specified in this paragraph shall be specified in the instruction book for the transmitter furnished to the user.

(4) When it is impracticable to subject the complete transmitter to this test because of its physical dimensions or power rating, only its frequency determining and stabilizing portions need be tested.

(d) The frequency stability shall be measured with variation of primary supply voltage as follows:

(1) Vary primary supply voltage from 85 to 115 percent of the nominal value for other than hand carried battery equipment.

(2) For hand carried, battery powered equipment, reduce primary supply voltage to the battery operating end point which shall be specified by the manufacturer.

(3) The supply voltage shall be measured at the input to the cable normally provided with the equipment, or at the power supply terminals if cables are not normally provided. Effects on frequency of transmitter keying (except for broadcast transmitters) and any heating element cycling at the nominal supply voltage and at each extreme also shall be shown.

(e) When deemed necessary, the Commission may require tests of frequency stability under conditions in addition to those specifically set out in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section. (For example measurements showing the effect of proximity to large metal objects, or of various types of antennas, may be required for portable equipment.)

