(a) Measurements shall be made to detect spurious emissions that may be radiated directly from the cabinet, control circuits, power leads, or intermediate circuit elements under normal conditions of installation and operation. Curves or equivalent data shall be supplied showing the magnitude of each harmonic and other spurious emission. For this test, single sideband, independent sideband, and controlled carrier transmitters shall be modulated under the conditions specified in paragraph (c) of ยง 2.1049, as appropriate. For equipment operating on frequencies below 890 MHz, an open field test is normally required, with the measuring instrument antenna located in the far-field at all test frequencies. In the event it is either impractical or impossible to make open field measurements (e.g. a broadcast transmitter installed in a building) measurements will be accepted of the equipment as installed. Such measurements must be accompanied by a description of the site where the measurements were made showing the location of any possible source of reflections which might distort the field strength measurements. Information submitted shall include the relative radiated power of each spurious emission with reference to the rated power output of the transmitter, assuming all emissions are radiated from halfwave dipole antennas.

(b) The measurements specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be made for the following equipment:

(1) Those in which the spurious emissions are required to be 60 dB or more below the mean power of the transmitter.

(2) All equipment operating on frequencies higher than 25 MHz.

(3) All equipment where the antenna is an integral part of, and attached directly to the transmitter.

(4) Other types of equipment as required, when deemed necessary by the Commission.

