(a) Pursuant to No. 1492 of Article 13 and Section F of Appendix 3 to the international Radio Regulations (Geneva, 1982), operators of radio astronomy stations desiring international recognition of their use of specific radio astronomy frequencies or bands of frequencies for reception, should file the following information with the Commission for inclusion in the Master International Frequency Register:

(1) The center of the frequency band observed, in kilohertz up to 28,000 kHz inclusive, in megahertz above 28,000 kHz to 10,500 MHz inclusive and in gigahertz above 10,500 MHz.

(2) The date (actual or foreseen, as appropriate) when reception of the frequency band begins.

(3) The name and location of the station, including geographical coordinates in degrees and minutes.

(4) The width of the frequency band (in kHz) observed by the station.

(5) The antenna type and dimensions, effective area and angular coverage in azimuth and elevation.

(6) The regular hours of reception (in UTC) of the observed frequency.

(7) The overall receiving system noise temperature (in kelvins) referred to the output of the receiving antenna.

(8) The class of observations to be taken. Class A observations are those in which the sensitivity of the equipment is not a primary factor. Class B observations are those of such a nature that they can be made only with advanced low-noise receivers using the best techniques.

(9) The name and mailing address of the operator.

(b) The permanent discontinuance of observations, or any change to the information above, should also be filed with the Commission.

(c) Observations being conducted on frequencies or frequency bands not allocated to the radio astronomy service should be reported as in paragraph (a) of this section for information purposes. Information in this category will not be submitted for entry in the Master International Frequency Register and protection from interference will not be afforded such operations by stations in other services.

