(a) For transmitters other than single sideband, independent sideband and controlled carrier radiotelephone, power output shall be measured at the RF output terminals when the transmitter is adjusted in accordance with the tune-up procedure to give the values of current and voltage on the circuit elements specified in § 2.1033(c)(8). The electrical characteristics of the radio frequency load attached to the output terminals when this test is made shall be stated.

(b) For single sideband, independent sideband, and single channel, controlled carrier radiotelephone transmitters the procedure specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be employed and, in addition, the transmitter shall be modulated during the test as follows. In all tests, the input level of the modulating signal shall be such as to develop rated peak envelope power or carrier power, as appropriate, for the transmitter.

(1) Single sideband transmitters in the A3A or A3J emission modes—by two tones at frequencies of 400 Hz and 1800 Hz (for 3.0 kHz authorized bandwidth), or 500 Hz and 2100 Hz (3.5 kHz authorized bandwidth), or 500 Hz and 2400 Hz (for 4.0 kHz authorized bandwidth), applied simultaneously, the input levels of the tones so adjusted that the two principal frequency components of the radio frequency signal produced are equal in magnitude.

(2) Single sideband transmitters in the A3H emission mode—by one tone at a frequency of 1500 Hz (for 3.0 kHz authorized bandwidth), or 1700 Hz (for 3.5 kHz authorized bandwidth), or 1900 Hz (for 4.0 kHz authorized bandwidth), the level of which is adjusted to produce a radio frequency signal component equal in magnitude to the magnitude of the carrier in this mode.

(3) As an alternative to paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section other tones besides those specified may be used as modulating frequencies, upon a sufficient showing of need. However, any tones so chosen must not be harmonically related, the third and fifth order intermodulation products which occur must fall within the −25 dB step of the emission bandwidth limitation curve, the seventh and ninth order intermodulation product must fall within the 35 dB step of the referenced curve and the eleventh and all higher order products must fall beyond the −35 dB step of the referenced curve.

(4) Independent sideband transmitters having two channels by 1700 Hz tones applied simultaneously in both channels, the input levels of the tones so adjusted that the two principal frequency components of the radio frequency signal produced are equal in magnitude.

(5) Independent sideband transmitters having more than two channels by an appropriate signal or signals applied to all channels simultaneously. The input signal or signals shall simulate the input signals specified by the manufacturer for normal operation.

(6) Single-channel controlled-carrier transmitters in the A3 emission mode—by a 2500 Hz tone.

(c) For measurements conducted pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, all calculations and methods used by the applicant for determining carrier power or peak envelope power, as appropriate, on the basis of measured power in the radio frequency load attached to the transmitter output terminals shall be shown. Under the test conditions specified, no components of the emission spectrum shall exceed the limits specified in the applicable rule parts as necessary for meeting occupied bandwidth or emission limitations.

