(a) Radio frequency devices may be imported only if one or more of these conditions are met:

(1) The radio frequency device has been issued an equipment authorization by the FCC.
              

(2) The radio frequency device is not required to have an equipment authorization and the device complies with FCC technical administrative regulations.

(3) The radio frequency device is being imported in limited quantities for testing and evaluation to determine compliance with the FCC Rules and Regulations or suitability for marketing. The devices will not be offered for sale or marketed. The phrase “limited quantities,” in this context means:

(i) 2000 or fewer units, provided the product is designed solely for operation within one of the Commission's authorized radio services for which an operating license is required to be issued by the Commission; or

(ii) 200 or fewer units for all other products.

(iii) Prior to importation of a greater number of units than shown above, written approval must be obtained from the Chief, Office of Engineering and Technology, FCC.

(iv) Distinctly different models of a product and separate generations of a particular model under development are considered to be separate devices.

(4) The radio frequency device is being imported in limited quantities for demonstration at industry trade shows and the device will not be offered for sale or marketed. The phrase “limited quantities,” in this context means:

(i) 200 or fewer units, provided the product is designed solely for operation within one of the Commission's authorized radio services for which an operating license is required to be issued by the Commission; or

(ii) 10 or fewer units for all other products.

(iii) Prior to importation of a greater number of units than shown above, written approval must be obtained from the Chief, Office of Engineering and Technology, FCC.

(iv) Distinctly different models of a product and separate generations of a particular model under development are considered to be separate devices.

(5) The radio frequency device is being imported solely for export. The device will not be marketed or offered for sale in the U.S., except:

(i) If the device is a foreign standard cellular phone solely capable of functioning outside the U.S.

(ii) If the device is a multi-mode wireless handset that has been certified under the Commission's rules and a component (or components) of the handset is a foreign standard cellular phone solely capable of functioning outside the U.S.

(6) The radio frequency device is being imported for use exclusively by the U.S. Government.

(7) Three or fewer radio receivers, computers, or other unintentional radiators as defined in part 15 of this chapter, are being imported for the individual's personal use and are not intended for sale.

(8) The radio frequency device is being imported for repair and will not be offered for sale or marketed.

(9) The radio frequency device is a medical implant transmitter inserted in a person or a medical body-worn transmitter as defined in part 95, granted entry into the United States or is a control transmitter associated with such an implanted or body-worn transmitter, provided, however that the transmitters covered by this provision otherwise comply with the technical requirements applicable to transmitters authorized to operate in the Medical Device Radiocommunication Service (MedRadio) under part 95 of this chapter. Such transmitters are permitted to be imported without the issuance of a grant of equipment authorization only for the personal use of the person in whom the medical implant transmitter has been inserted or on whom the medical body-worn transmitter is applied.

(10) Three or fewer portable earth-station transceivers, as defined in § 25.129 of this chapter, are being imported by a traveler as personal effects and will not be offered for sale or lease in the United States.

(b) The ultimate consignee must be able to document compliance with the selected import condition and the basis for determining the import condition applied.

