The environmental and operational tests in § 2.1509 (a) through (e) are to be conducted on a single test unit in the order given below. This sequence of tests also includes the electrical tests in §§ 2.1511, 2.1513 and 2.1515 of this part. The test unit is not to be adjusted, nor is the battery to be replaced during these tests, and a log of battery on-time should be maintained. The above tests are to be performed on the same test unit. The tests in § 2.1509 (f) through (i) may be run in any sequence or may be performed on separate test units.

(a) Vibration test.
                                    
                                    

(b) Thermal shock tests. These tests are to be performed on EPIRBs which are required or intended to float. (1) Low temperature thermal shock test.
                                    
                                    

(2) High temperature thermal shock test.
                                    
                                    

(c) Salt fog test.
                                    
                                    

(d) Drop test. This test is to be performed on EPIRB which are required or intended to float.
                                    

(e) Forty-eight hour operational test. This test includes the battery life test and all the electrical tests given in §§ 2.1511, 2.1513 and 2.1515 of this part, at various temperatures. The tests are to be performed on the same EPIRB in the sequence specified herein. Be sure to record the on-time of the unit during each test. No more than 8 hours of total on-time is permitted before commencing step 4. When operating the EPIRB in the environmental chamber, a non-radiating load may be substituted for the antenna provided it is electrically equivalent to the standard antenna and does not reduce the battery current drain.
                                    

(f) Float free and activation test. This test is required only for Class A EPIRBs.
                                    

(g) Stability and buoyancy test. This test is to be performed on EPIRBs which are required or intended to float. This test is to be conducted in fresh water.
                                    

(h) Temperature/frequency test. The frequency stability shall be measured over an ambient temperature from −20° to +55 °C at intervals of not more than 10 °C. A period of time sufficient to stabilize all of the components of the oscillator circuit at each temperture level shall be allowed prior to frequency measurement.
                                    

(i) Leakage and immersion test.
                                    
                                    

