(a) The following table indicates forms of identification which may be used in lieu of call signs by the specified classes of stations. Such recognized means of identification may be one or more of the following: name of station, location of station, operating agency, official registration mark, flight identification number, selective call number or signal, selective call identification number or signal, characteristic signal, characteristic of emission or other clearly distinguishing form of identification readily recognized internationally. Reference should be made to the appropriate part of the rules for complete information on identification procedures for each service.

(b) Digital selective calls will be authorized by the Commission and will be formed by groups of numbers (0 through 9), however, the first digit must be other than 0, as follows:

(1) Coast station identification number: 4 digits.

(2) Ship station selective call number: 5 digits.

(3) Predetermined group of ship stations: 5 digits.

(c) Ship stations operating under a temporary operating authority shall identify by a call sign consisting of the letter “K” followed by the vessel's Federal or State registration number, or a call sign consisting of the letters “KUS” followed by the vessel's documentation number. However, if the vessel has no registration number or documentation number, the call sign shall consist of the name of the vessel and the name of the licensee as they appear on the station application form.

