(a) An application for equipment authorization shall be filed on a form prescribed by the Commission.

(b) Each application shall be accompanied by all information required by this subpart and by those parts of the rules governing operation of the equipment, and by requisite test data, diagrams, etc., as specified in this subpart and in those sections of rules whereunder the equipment is to be operated.
                

(c) Each application including amendments thereto, and related statements of fact required by the Commission, shall be personally signed by the applicant if the applicant is an individual; by one of the partners if the applicant is a partnership; by an officer, if the applicant is a corporation; or by a member who is an officer, if the applicant is an unincorporated association: Provided, however, That the application may be signed by the applicant's authorized representative who shall indicate his title, such as plant manager, project engineer, etc.

(d) Technical test data shall be signed by the person who performed or supervised the tests. The person signing the test data shall attest to the accuracy of such data. The Commission may require such person to submit a statement showing that he is qualified to make or supervise the required measurements.

(e) The signatures of the applicant and the person certifying the test data shall be made personally by those persons on the original application; copies of such documents may be conformed. Signatures and certifications need not be made under oath.

(f) Each application shall be accompanied by the processing fee prescribed in subpart G of part 1 of this chapter.

(g) Signed, as used in this section, means an original handwritten signature; however, the Office of Engineering and Technology may allow signature by any symbol executed or adopted by the applicant with the intent that such symbol be a signature, including symbols formed by computer-generated electronic impulses.

