(a) An equipment authorization issued by the Commission may not be assigned, exchanged or in any other way transferred to a second party, except as provided in this section.

(b) The grantee of an equipment authorization may license or otherwise authorize a second party to manufacture the equipment covered by the grant of the equipment authorization provided:

(1) The equipment manufactured by such second party bears the FCC Identifier as is set out in the grant of the equipment authorization.
                

(2) The grantee of the equipment authorization shall continue to be responsible to the Commission for the equipment produced pursuant to such an agreement.

(c) Whenever there is a change in the name and/or address of the grantee of an equipment authorization, notice of such change(s) shall be submitted to the Commission via the Internet at https://gullfoss2.fcc.gov/prod/oet/cf/eas/index.cfm within 30 days after the grantee starts using the new name and/or address.

(d) In the case of transactions affecting the grantee, such as a transfer of control or sale to another company, mergers, or transfer of manufacturing rights, notice must be given to the Commission via the Internet at https://gullfoss2.fcc.gov/prod/oet/cf/eas/index.cfm within 60 days after the consummation of the transaction. Depending on the circumstances in each case, the Commission may require new applications for equipment authorization. In reaching a decision the Commission will consider whether the acquiring party can adequately ensure and accept responsibility for continued compliance with the regulations. In general, new applications for each device will not be required. A single application for equipment authorization may be filed covering all the affected equipment.

