(a) Each equipment covered in an application for equipment authorization shall bear a nameplate or label listing the following:

(1) FCC Identifier consisting of the two elements in the exact order specified in ยง 2.926. The FCC Identifier shall be preceded by the term FCC ID in capital letters on a single line, and shall be of a type size large enough to be legible without the aid of magnification.
                

(2) Any other statements or labeling requirements imposed by the rules governing the operation of the specific class of equipment, except that such statement(s) of compliance may appear on a separate label at the option of the applicant/grantee.

(3) Equipment subject only to registration will be identified pursuant to part 68 of this chapter.

(b) Any device subject to more than one equipment authorization procedure may be assigned a single FCC Identifier. However, a single FCC Identifier is required to be assigned to any device consisting of two or more sections assembled in a common enclosure, on a common chassis or circuit board, and with common frequency controlling circuits. Devices to which a single FCC Identifier has been assigned shall be identified pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
                

(1) Separate FCC Identifiers may be assigned to a device consisting of two or more sections assembled in a common enclosure, but constructed on separate sub-units or circuit boards with independent frequency controlling circuits. The FCC Identifier assigned to any transmitter section shall be preceded by the term TX FCC ID, the FCC Identifier assigned to any receiver section shall be preceded by the term RX FCC ID and the identifier assigned to any remaining section(s) shall be preceded by the term FCC ID.

(2) Where telephone equipment subject to part 68 of this chapter, and a radiofrequency device subject to equipment authorization requirements are assembled in a common enclosure, the nameplate/label shall display the FCC Registration Number in the format specified in part 68 and the FCC Identifier in the format specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) Applications filed on or after May 1, 1981, and applications filed earlier requesting equipment authorization using the single system of identification pursuant to section (a)(1) will receive a review of the identification portion by the Commission's Laboratory with respect to nameplate/label design within 30 days after receipt at the Laboratory. Failure by the Laboratory to reject a nameplate design proposed in any particular application within this time period will constitute de-facto acceptance of the nameplate/label design for that particular equipment. Such de facto acceptance will be limited to the equipment covered by the particular application and will not be considered to establish a precedent for other applications. This review deadline applies only to the proposed nameplate/label design, not to the remainder of the application.

(4) For a transceiver, the receiver portion of which is subject to verification pursuant to ยง 15.101 of this chapter, the FCC Identifier required for the transmitter portion shall be preceded by the term FCC ID.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) In order to validate the grant of equipment authorization, the nameplate or label shall be permanently affixed to the equipment and shall be readily visible to the purchaser at the time of purchase.

(1) As used here, permanently affixed means that the required nameplate data is etched, engraved, stamped, indelibly printed, or otherwise permanently marked on a permanently attached part of the equipment enclosure. Alternatively, the required information may be permanently marked on a nameplate of metal, plastic, or other material fastened to the equipment enclosure by welding, riveting, etc., or with a permanent adhesive. Such a nameplate must be able to last the expected lifetime of the equipment in the environment in which the equipment will be operated and must not be readily detachable.

(2) As used here, readily visible means that the nameplate or nameplate data must be visible from the outside of the equipment enclosure. It is preferable that it be visible at all times during normal installation or use, but this is not a prerequisite for grant of equipment authorization.

(e) A software defined radio may be equipped with a means such as a user display screen to display the FCC identification number normally contained in the nameplate or label. The information must be readily accessible, and the user manual must describe how to access the electronic display.

(f) Where it is shown that a permanently affixed nameplate is not desirable or is not feasible, an alternative method of positively identifying the equipment may be used if approved by the Commission. The proposed alternative method of identification and the justification for its use must be included with the application for equipment authorization.
                

(g) The term FCC ID and the coded identification assigned by the Commission shall be in a size of type large enough to be readily legible, consistent with the dimensions of the equipment and its nameplate. However, the type size for the FCC Identifier is not required to be larger than eight-point.

