(a) A grant of equipment authorization issued by the Commission will list the validated FCC Identifier consisting of the grantee code assigned by the FCC pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, and the equipment product code assigned by the grantee pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. See § 2.925.

(b) The grantee code assigned pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section is assigned permanently to applicants/grantees and is valid only for the party specified as the applicant/grantee in the code assignment(s).

(c) A grantee code may consist of Arabic numerals, capital letters, or other characters. The format for this code will be specified by the Commission's Office of Engineering and Technology. A prospective grantee or its authorized representative may receive a grantee code electronically via the Internet at http://www.fcc.gov/eas. The code may be obtained at any time prior to submittal of the application for equipment authorization. However, the fee required by § 1.1103 of this chapter must be submitted and validated within 30 days of the issuance of the grantee code, or the code will be removed from the Commission's records and a new grantee code will have to be obtained.

(1) After assignment of a grantee code each grantee will continue to use the same grantee code for subsequent equipment authorization applications.

In the event the grantee name is changed or ownership is transferred, the circumstances shall be reported to the Commission so that a new grantee code can be assigned, if appropriate. See §§ 2.934 and 2.935 for additional information.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) The equipment product code assigned by the grantee shall consist of a series of Arabic numerals, capital letters or a combination thereof, and may include the dash or hyphen (-). The total of Arabic numerals, capital letters and dashes or hyphens shall not exceed 14 and shall be one which has not been previously used in conjunction with:

(1) The same grantee code, or

(2) An application denied pursuant to § 2.919 of this chapter.

(e) No FCC Identifier may be used on equipment to be marketed unless that specific identifier has been validated by a grant of equipment authorization issued by the Commission. This shall not prohibit placement of an FCC identifier on a transceiver which includes a verified receiver subject to § 15.101, provided that the transmitter portion of such transceiver is covered by a valid grant of type acceptance or certification. The FCC Identifier is uniquely assigned to the grantee and may not be placed on the equipment without authorization by the grantee. See § 2.803 for conditions applicable to the display at trade shows of equipment which has not been granted equipment authorization where such grant is required prior to marketing. Labelling of such equipment may include model or type numbers, but shall not include a purported FCC Identifier.

