(a) For each equipment subject to the Commission's equipment authorization standards, the responsible party shall maintain the records listed as follows:

(1) A record of the original design drawings and specifications and all changes that have been made that may affect compliance with the standards and the requirements of § 2.931.

(2) A record of the procedures used for production inspection and testing to ensure conformance with the standards and the requirements of § 2.931.

(3) A record of the test results that demonstrate compliance with the appropriate regulations in this chapter.

(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall also apply to a manufacturer of equipment produced under the provisions of § 2.929(b). The retention of the records by the manufacturer under these circumstances shall satisfy the grantee's responsibility under paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) The records listed in paragraph (a) of this section shall be retained for one year for equipment subject to authorization under the certification procedure or former type acceptance procedure, or for two years for equipment subject to authorization under any other procedure, after the manufacture of said equipment has been permanently discontinued, or until the conclusion of an investigation or a proceeding if the responsible party (or, under paragraph (b) of this section, the manufacturer) is officially notified that an investigation or any other administrative proceeding involving its equipment has been instituted.

(d) If radio frequency equipment is modified by any party other than the original responsible party, and that party is not working under the authorization of the original responsible party, the party performing the modifications is not required to obtain the original design drawings specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. However, the party performing the modifications must maintain records showing the changes made to the equipment along with the records required in paragraphs (a)(3) of this section. A new equipment authorization may also be required. See, for example, §§ 2.909, 2.924, 2.933, and 2.1043.

