(a) Each party making measurements of equipment that is subject to an equipment authorization under part 15 or part 18 of this chapter, regardless of whether the measurements are filed with the Commission or kept on file by the party responsible for compliance of equipment marketed within the U.S. or its possessions, shall compile a description of the measurement facilities employed.

(1) If the measured equipment is subject to the verification procedure, the description of the measurement facilities shall be retained by the party responsible for verification of the equipment.

(i) If the equipment is verified through measurements performed by an independent laboratory, it is acceptable for the party responsible for verification of the equipment to rely upon the description of the measurement facilities retained by or placed on file with the Commission by that laboratory. In this situation, the party responsible for verification of the equipment is not required to retain a duplicate copy of the description of the measurement facilities.

(ii) If the equipment is verified based on measurements performed at the installation site of the equipment, no specific site calibration data is required. It is acceptable to retain the description of the measurement facilities at the site at which the measurements were performed.

(2) If the equipment is to be authorized by the Commission under the certification procedure, the description of the measurement facilities shall be filed with the Commission's Laboratory in Columbia, Maryland. The data describing the measurement facilities need only be filed once but must be updated as changes are made to the measurement facilities or as otherwise described in this section. At least every three years, the organization responsible for filing the data with the Commission shall certify that the data on file is current. A laboratory that has been accredited in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section is not required to file a description of its facilities with the Commission's laboratory, provided the accrediting organization (or designating authority in the case of foreign laboratories) submits the following information to the Commission's laboratory:

(i) Laboratory name, location of test site(s), mailing address and contact information;

(ii) Name of accrediting organization;

(iii) Date of expiration of accreditation;

(iv) Designation number;

(v) FCC Registration Number (FRN);

(vi) A statement as to whether or not the laboratory performs testing on a contract basis;

(vii) For laboratories outside the United States, the name of the mutual recognition agreement or arrangement under which the accreditation of the laboratory is recognized.

(3) If the equipment is to be authorized under the Declaration of Conformity procedure, the laboratory making the measurements must be accredited in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) The description shall contain the following information:

(1) Location of the test site.

(2) Physical description of the test site accompanied by photographs of size A4 (21 cm × 29.7 cm) or 8×10 inches (20.3 cm × 25.4 cm). Smaller photographs may be used if they clearly show the details of the test site and are mounted on full size sheets of paper.

(3) A drawing showing the dimensions of the site, physical layout of all supporting structures, and all structures within 5 times the distance between the measuring antenna and the device being measured.

(4) Description of structures used to support the device being measured and the test instrumentation.

(5) List of measuring equipment used.

(6) Information concerning the calibration of the measuring equipment, i.e., the date the equipment was last calibrated and how often the equipment is calibrated.

(7) If desired, a statement as to whether the test site is available to do measurement services for the public on a fee basis.

(8) For a measurement facility that will be used for testing radiated emissions, a plot of site attenuation data taken pursuant to the procedures contained in Sections 5.4.6 through 5.5 of the following procedure: American National Standards Institute (ANSI) C63.4-2001, entitled “American National Standard for Methods of Measurement of Radio-Noise Emissions from Low-Voltage Electrical and Electronic Equipment in the Range of 9 kHz to 40 GHz” published by the American National Standards Institute on June 22, 2001 as document number SH94908. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of C63.4-2001 may be obtained from: IEEE Customer Service, P.O. Box 1331, Piscataway, NJ 08855-1331, or UPS only IEEE Customer Service, 445 Hoes Lane, Piscataway, NJ 08854; telephone 1-800-678-4333 or +1-732-981-0600 (outside the United States and Canada). Copies of ANSI C63.4-2001 may be inspected at the following locations:

(i) Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Office of Engineering and Technology (Room 7-B144), Washington, DC 20554,

(ii) Federal Communications Commission Laboratory, 7435 Oakland Mills Road, Columbia, MD 21046, or

(iii) at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
                

(9) A description of the types of equipment intended to be measured or other information regarding the types of measurements that would be performed at the test facility.

(c) The Commission will publish a list of those parties who have filed the information required by this section, provided they indicate that they wish to perform measurement services for the public on a fee basis. However, it should be noted that the Commission does not endorse or approve any facility on this list.

(d) A laboratory that has been accredited with a scope covering the required measurements shall be deemed competent to test and submit test data for equipment subject to verification, Declaration of Conformity, and certification. Such a laboratory shall be accredited by an approved accreditation organization based on the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC) Standard 17025, “General Requirements for the Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories.” The organization accrediting the laboratory must be approved by the Commission's Office of Engineering and Technology, as indicated in § 0.241 of this chapter, to perform such accreditation based on ISO/IEC 58, “Calibration and Testing Laboratory Accreditation Systems—General Requirements for Operation and Recognition.” The frequency for revalidation of the test site and the information that is required to be filed or retained by the testing party shall comply with the requirements established by the accrediting organization. However, in all cases, test site revalidation shall occur on an interval not to exceed two years.

(e) The accreditation of a laboratory located outside of the United States, or its possessions, will be acceptable only under one of the following conditions:

(1) If the accredited laboratory has been designated by a foreign designating authority and recognized by the Commission under the terms of a government-to-government Mutual Recognition Agreement/Arrangement; or

(2) If the laboratory has been recognized by the Commission as being accredited by an organization that has entered into an arrangement between accrediting organizations and the arrangement has been recognized by the Commission.

