(a) Commercial mobile radio services providers, to the extent applicable, must comply with sections 201, 202, 206, 207, 208, 209, 216, 217, 223, 225, 226, 227, and 228 of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 201, 202, 206, 207, 208, 209, 216, 217, 223, 225, 226, 227, 228; part 68 of this chapter, 47 CFR part 68; and §§ 1.701-1.748, and 1.815 of this chapter, 47 CFR 1.701-1.748, 1.815.

(b) Commercial mobile radio service providers are not required to:

(1) File with the Commission copies of contracts entered into with other carriers or comply with other reporting requirements, or with §§ 1.781 through 1.814 and 43.21 of this chapter; except that commercial radio service providers that offer broadband service, as described in § 1.7001(a) of this chapter or mobile telephony are required to file reports pursuant to §§ 1.7000 and 43.11 of this chapter. For purposes of this section, mobile telephony is defined as real-time, two-way switched voice service that is interconnected with the public switched network utilizing an in-network switching facility that enables the provider to reuse frequencies and accomplish seamless handoff of subscriber calls.

(2) Seek authority for interlocking directors (section 212 of the Communications Act);

(3) Submit applications for new facilities or discontinuance of existing facilities (section 214 of the Communications Act).

(c) Commercial mobile radio service providers shall not file tariffs for international and interstate service to their customers, interstate access service, or international and interstate operator service. Sections 1.771 through 1.773 and part 61 of this chapter are not applicable to international and interstate services provided by commercial mobile radio service providers. Commercial mobile radio service providers shall cancel tariffs for international and interstate service to their customers, interstate access service, and international and interstate operator service.

(d) Except as specified as in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2), nothing in this section shall be construed to modify the Commission's rules and policies on the provision of international service under part 63 of this chapter.

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 63.21(c) of this chapter, a commercial mobile radio service provider is not required to comply with § 42.10 of this chapter.

(2) A commercial mobile radio service (CMRS) provider that is classified as dominant under § 63.10 of this chapter due to an affiliation with a foreign carrier is required to comply with § 42.11 of this chapter if the affiliated foreign carrier collects settlement payments from U.S. carriers for terminating U.S. international switched traffic at the foreign end of the route. Such a CMRS provider is not required to comply with § 42.11, however, if it provides service on the affiliated route solely through the resale of an unaffiliated facilities-based provider's international switched services.

(3) For purposes of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, affiliated and foreign carrier are defined in § 63.09 of this Chapter.

(e) For obligations of commercial mobile radio service providers to provide local number portability, see § 52.1 of this chapter.

