The following definitions apply herein:

(a) Communications common carrier, specialized carrier, or carrier means any individual, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust, or corporation subject to Federal or State regulation engaged in providing telecommunications facilities or services, for use by the public, for hire.

(b) Government means Federal, State, county, municipal, and other local government authority. Specific qualification will be provided whenever reference to a particular level of government is intended.

(c) Joint Telecommunications Resources Board (JTRB) means that organization established by the Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy, pursuant to Executive Order 12472 to assist the Director, OSTP, in exercising the non-wartime emergency telecommunications functions assigned by Executive Order 12472.

(d) The National Communications System (NCS) means that organization established by Executive Order 12472 consisting of the telecommunications assets of the entities represented on the NCS Committee of Principals and an administrative structure consisting of the Executive Agent, the NCS Committee of Principals and the Manager. The NCS Committee of Principals consists of representatives from those Federal departments, agencies or entities, designated by the President, which lease or own telecommunications facilities or services of significance to national security and emergency preparedness, and, to the extent permitted by law, other Executive entities which bear policy, regulatory or enforcement responsibilities of importance to national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications capabilities. The NCS is a confederative arrangement in which member Federal agencies participate with their owned and leased telecommunications assets to provide necessary communications services for the Federal Government, under all conditions, including nuclear war.

(e) National Coordinating Center (NCC) refers to the joint industry-government telecommunications entity established by the NCS pursuant to Executive Order 12472 to assist in the initiation, coordination, restoration and reconstitution of national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications services or facilities under all conditions of crisis or emergency.

(f) National priorities means those essential actions and activities in which the government and the private sector must become engaged in the interests of national survival and recovery.

(g) National security and emergency preparedness (NS/EP) telecommunications services, or NS/EP services, means those telecommunication services which are used to maintain a state of readiness or to respond to and manage any event or crisis (local, national, or international) which causes or could cause injury or harm to the population, damage to or loss of property, or degrades or threatens the NS/EP posture of the United States.

(h) NS/EP treatment refers to the provisioning of a telecommunications service before others based on the provisioning priority level assigned by the Executive Office of the President.

(i) National Telecommunications Management Structure (NTMS) means a survivable and enduring management structure which will support the exercise of the war power functions of the President under section 706 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 606), as amended.

(j) Private sector means those sectors of non-government entities that are users of telecommunications services.

(k) Telecommunications means any transmission, emission, or reception of signs, signals, writing, images, graphics, and sounds or intelligence of any nature by wire, radio, optical, or other electromagnetic systems.

(l) Telecommunications resources include telecommunications personnel, equipment, material, facilities, systems, and services, public and private, wheresoever located within the jurisdiction of the United States.

(m) Wartime emergency means a crisis or event which permits the exercise of the war power functions of the President under section 706 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 606), as amended.

