Federal authority, substantive provisions, and functional responsibilities of the executive office are summarized in the following:
          

(a) Wartime emergency functions. (1) The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (the National Security Advisor) shall provide general policy direction for the exercise of the war power functions of the President under section 706 of the Communications Act (47 U.S.C. 606), as amended, should the President issue implementing instructions in accordance with the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601).

(2) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall direct the exercise of the war power functions of the President under section 706(a), (c)-(e) of the Communications Act (47 U.S.C. 606), as amended, should the President issue implementing instructions in accordance with the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601).

(b) Non-wartime emergency functions. (1) The National Security Advisor shall:

(i) Advise and assist the President in coordinating the development of policy, plans, programs and standards within the Federal Government for the identification, allocation and use of the Nation's telecommunications resources by the Federal Government, and by State and local governments, private industry and volunteer organizations, upon request, to the extent practicable and otherwise consistent with the law, during those crises or emergencies in which the exercise of the President's war power functions is not required or permitted by law.

(ii) Provide policy oversight and direction of the activities of the NCS.

(2) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall:

(i) Provide information, advice, guidance and assistance, as appropriate, to the President and to those Federal departments and agencies with responsibilities for the provision, management or allocation of telecommunications resources during those crises or emergencies in which the exercise of the President's war power functions is not required or permitted by law.

(ii) Establish a Joint Telecommunications Resources Board (JTRB) to assist the Director in providing information, advice, guidance and assistance, as appropriate, to the President and to those Federal Departments and agencies with responsibilities for the provision, management, or allocation of telecommunications resources, during those crises or emergencies in which the exercise of the President's war power functions is not required or permitted by law.

(c) Planning and oversight responsibilities. (1) The National Security Advisor shall advise and assist the President in:

(i) Coordination and development of policy, plans, programs and standards for the mobilization and use of the Nation's commercial, government, and privately owned telecommunications resources to meet national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications requirements.

(ii) Providing policy oversight and direction of the activities of the NCS; and

(iii) Providing policy oversight and guidance for the execution of the responsibilities assigned to the Federal departments and agencies by Executive Order 12472.

(2) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (or a designee) shall:

(i) Advise and assist the President in the administration of a system of radio spectrum priorities for those spectrum dependent telecommunications resources of the Federal government which support national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications functions.

(ii) Certify or approve priorities for radio spectrum use by the Federal government, including the resolution of any conflicts in or among priorities under all conditions or crisis or emergency.

(3) The National Security Advisor, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall, in consultation with the Executive Agent for the NCS and the NCS Committee of Principals, determine what constitutes national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications requirements.

(4) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the National Security Advisor and the NCS, will prescribe general guidelines and procedures for reviewing the financing of the NCS within the budgetary process and for preparation of budget estimates by participating agencies.

(d) Performance of essential government and public services during a national emergency, as defined in section 706 of the Communications Act (47 U.S.C. 606), as amended, will require a means for communications between government and the private sector, communications essential to operations of elements of the national economy, and communications for national defense and civil defense purposes. The needs of the private sector and those of government should be properly coordinated to ensure that responses to each of these communities of interest, government and private sector, are appropriately balanced. For this reason, with regard to wartime emergency functions, the Director, Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), has delegated the responsibility for the private sector to the Chairman, Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and responsibility for the needs of government to the Executive Agent, National Communications System (NCS). A parity of level of authority of these officials is established. They will coordinate and negotiate telecommunications conflicts with respect to the allocation and use of the Nation's telecommunications resources, reporting to the Director on unresolved issues which are within the domain of their respective responsibilities and authorities.

(e) In order to support the NS/EP telecommunications needs of the Federal government, State and local governments, private industry and volunteer organizations, under all circumstances, including those of crisis or emergency, the following functions shall be performed:

(1) The Secretary of Commerce, for all conditions of crisis or emergency, shall:

(i) Develop plans and procedures concerning radio spectrum assignments, priorities and allocations for use by Federal departments, agencies and entities; and

(ii) Develop, maintain and publish policy, plans and procedures for the control and assignment of radio frequencies, including the authority to amend, modify or revoke such assignments, in those parts of the electromagnetic spectrum allocated to the Federal Government.

(2) The Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall:

(i) Plan for and provide, operate and maintain telecommunications services and facilities, as part of its National Emergency Management System, adequate to support its assigned emergency management responsibilities.

(ii) Advise and assist State and local governments and volunteer organizations, upon request and to the extent consistent with law, in developing plans and procedures for identifying and satisfying their NS/EP telecommunications requirements.

(iii) Ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications planning by State and local governments and volunteer organizations is mutually supportive of and consistent with the planning of the Federal Government.

(iv) Develop, upon request and to the extent consistent with law and in consonance with regulations promulgated by and agreements with the Federal Communications Commission, plans and capabilities for, and provide policy and management oversight of, the Emergency Broadcast System, and advise and assist private radio licensees of the Commission in developing emergency communications plans, procedures and capabilities.

(v) Act as sponsor for State and local governments' requests for telecommunications service priority (TSP) in accordance with the Federal Communications Commissions regulations and with procedures in approved NCS issuances.

(3) The Secretary of State, in accordance with assigned responsibilities within the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service, shall plan for and provide, operate and maintain rapid, reliable and secure telecommunications services to those Federal entities represented at United States diplomatic missions and consular offices overseas. This responsibility shall include the provision and operation of domestic telecommunications in support of assigned national security and emergency preparedness responsibilities.

(4) The Secretary of Defense shall:

(i) Plan for and provide, operate and maintain telecommunications services and facilities adequate to support the National Command Authorities and to execute responsibilities assigned by Executive Order 12333, December 4, 1981 (46 FR 59941; 3 CFR, 1981 Comp., p. 200).

(ii) Ensure that the Director of the National Security Agency provides the technical support necessary to develop and maintain plans adequate to provide for the security and protection of national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications.

(iii) Provide protection for interstate or foreign communication as directed by the President when the public interest requires under section 706(b) of the Communications Act (47 U.S.C. 606(b)).

(iv) In consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, develop policy, plans and procedures adequate to enable a transfer of control over radio stations in the Aviation Service and aboard vessels in the Maritime Service to the Department of Defense during a national emergency pursuant to ยง 202.1(b)(3) of these regulations.

(5) The Attorney General shall, as necessary, review for legal sufficiency, including consistency with the antitrust laws, all policies, plans or procedures developed pursuant to these regulations.

(6) The Director, Central Intelligence Agency, shall plan for and provide, operate and maintain telecommunications services adequate to support the Agency's assigned responsibilities, including the dissemination of intelligence within the Federal government.

(7) Except as otherwise assigned pursuant to these regulations, the Administrator of General Services shall ensure that Federally owned or managed domestic communications facilities and services meet the NS/EP requirements of Federal civilian departments, agencies and entities. The Administrator shall perform these responsibilities consistent with policy guidance of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

(8) The Secretary of the Interior shall develop and execute emergency plans with respect to the administration of telecommunications activities in the territorial and trusteeship areas under the jurisdiction of the United States and within the responsibility previously assigned to him by appropriate laws and other authority.

(9) The Federal Communications Commission, consistent with its statutory authority, shall:

(i) Review the policies, plans and procedures of all entities licensed or regulated by the Commission that are developed to provide national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications services to ensure that such policies, plans and procedures are consistent with the public interest, convenience and necessity.

(ii) Perform such functions as required by law with respect to all entities licensed or regulated by the Commission, including (but not limited to) the extension, discontinuance or reduction of common carrier facilities or services; the control of common carrier rates, charges, practices and classifications; the construction, authorization, activation, deactivation or closing of radio stations, services and facilities; the assignment of radio frequencies to Commission licensees; the investigation of violations of pertinent law and regulation; and the initiation of appropriate enforcement actions.

(iii) Develop policy, plans and procedures adequate to execute the responsibilities assigned pursuant to these regulations under all conditions of crisis or emergency.

(iv) Consult as appropriate with authorized officials of the NCS to ensure continued coordination of their respective NCS activities.

(10) The National Communications System (comprised of the Executive Agent for the NCS, the NCS Committee of Principals, and the Manager, NCS) shall assist the President, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, National Security Advisor and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in the exercise of national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications functions and responsibilities and in the coordination of the planning for and provision of national security and emergency preparedness communications for the Federal government under all circumstances, including crisis or emergency, attack, recovery and reconstitution.

(11) The Executive Agent for the NCS shall:

(i) Ensure that the NCS conducts unified planning and operations, in order to coordinate the development and maintenance of an effective and responsive capability for meeting the domestic and international national security and emergency preparedness needs of the Federal government.

(ii) Ensure that the activities of the NCS are conducted in conjunction with the emergency management activities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

(12) The Manager, NCS shall:

(i) Develop for consideration by the NCS Committee of Principals and the Executive Agent:

(A) A recommended evolutionary telecommunications architecture designed to meet current and future Federal government national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications requirements.

(B) Plans and procedures for the management, allocation and use, including the establishment of priorities or preferences, of Federally owned or leased telecommunications assets under all conditions of crisis or emergency.

(C) Plans, procedures and standards for minimizing or removing technical impediments to the interoperability of government-owned and/or commercially provided telecommunications systems.

(D) Test and exercise programs and procedures for the evaluation of the capability of the Nation's telecommunications resources to meet national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications requirements.

(E) Alternative mechanisms for funding, through the budget review process, NS/EP telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies or entities. Those mechanisms recommended by the NCS Committee of Principals and the Executive Agent shall be submitted to the Executive Office of the President.

(ii) Implement and administer any approved plans or programs as assigned, including any system of priorities and preferences for the provision of telecommunications service, in consultation with the NCS Committee of Principals and the Federal Communications Commission, to the extent practicable or otherwise required by law or regulation.

(iii) Implement, with the assistance of appropriate Federal agencies, a decentralized National Telecommunications Management Structure (NTMS) capable of functioning independently in support of appropriate authority within the terms and guidelines delineated in the White House approved Implementation Concept.

(iv) Conduct technical studies or analyses, and examine research and development programs, for the purpose of identifying, for consideration by the NCS Committee of Principals and the Executive Agent, improved approaches which may assist Federal entities in fulfilling national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications objectives.

(v) Develop an NCS Issuance System of official documents to implement, establish, guide, describe or explain organizational responsibilities, authorities, policies and procedures.

(13) The NCS Committee of Principals shall:

(i) Serve as the forum in which each member of the Committee may review, evaluate and present views, information and recommendations concerning ongoing or prospective national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications programs of the NCS and the entities represented on the Committee.

(ii) Serve as the forum in which each member of the Committee shall report on and explain ongoing or prospective telecommunications plans and programs developed or designed to achieve national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications objectives.

(iii) Provide comments or recommendations, as appropriate, to the National Security Council, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Executive Agent, or the Manager of the NCS, regarding ongoing or prospective activities of the NCS.

(14) All Federal departments and agencies shall:

(i) Prepare policies, plans and procedures concerning telecommunications facilities, services, or equipment under their management or operational control to maximize their capability to respond to the national security and emergency preparedness needs of the Federal Government. Such plans will be prepared, and the operations will be executed, in conjunction with the emergency management activities of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and in regular consultation with the Executive Agent for the NCS and the NCS Committee of Principals.

(ii) Cooperate with and assist the Executive Agent for the NCS, the NCS Committee of Principals, the Manager of the NCS, and other departments and agencies in the execution of the functions set forth in this regulation, furnishing them such information, support and assistance as may be required.

