(a) Except as otherwise provided below, all requests for restoration priority assignments will be submitted to the Executive Agent in the format prescribed by him for processing and certification.

(b) Priority 3 and 4 applications from county and municipal governments, quasi-state and local government agencies and private entites shall be forwarded to the Federal Communications Commission for its approval and for certification to the carriers. These submissions will be in the form prescribed by the Commission.

(c) Industrial/Commercial entities designated for prearranged voluntary participation with the Federal Government in a national emergency should submit separate applications to the Commission when requesting the assignment of priorities in category 1 or 2. Such assignments will require the approval of the National Security Council in order to continue to be effective during a war emergency. In all cases the justification for restoration priorities will contain a validation statement from the Government agency with whom participation is prearranged.

(d) Requests for restoration priority assignments made by Foreign Government agencies, except for NATO, NATO national military authority, and such other requests as the Executive Agent may be designated, will be submitted to the Department of State for initial evaluation and review. The Department will forward to the Executive Agent for processing and approval such of these requests as it finds acceptable.
          

(e) Requests for restoration priority assignments made by NATO, NATO national military authority, and such other requests as the Executive Agent may designate, will be forwarded through established Allied Long Lines Agency (ALLA) channels to the Secretary of Defense. The Secretary will forward to the Executive Agent for processing and approval such of these requests as he finds acceptable pursuant to approved NATO/U.S. procedures.

(f) Requests for temporary upgrading of restoration priority assignments occasioned by special critical conditions, including natural disasters, heightened diplomatic and political tenseness, and tracking and control of manned space operations, may be submitted to the Executive Agent together with such information as he may require for expedited processing decision.

(g) All assignments, denials and changes of restoration priorities and subpriorities are subject to review and modification by the National Security Council.

(h) When requesting service from the carriers the user must include the certified restoration priority on the service authorization.

