The following definitions apply herein—

(a) Communications common carrier or carrier means any person gaged in communications common carriage for hire, in intrastate, interstate, or international telecommunications.
          

(b) Circuit means a carrier's specific designation of the overall facilities provided between, and including, terminals for furnishing service. When service involves network switching, circuit includes those circuits between subscriber premises and switching centers (access lines) and those between switching centers (trunks).

(c) Station means transmitting or receiving equipment or combination transmitting and receiving equipment, at any location, or any premise, connected for private line service.

(d) Private line service means leased intercity private line service provided by carriers for intercity domestic and international communications over integrated communications pathways, and includes interchange facilities, local channels, and station equipment which may be integral components of such communications service.

(e) Restoration means the recommencement of service by patching, rerouting, substitution of component parts, and other means, as determined necessary by a carrier.

(f) Government means Federal, foreign, State, county, municipal, and other local government agencies. Specific qualifications will be supplied whenever reference to a particular level of government is intended, e.g., Federal Government, State government. Foreign Government includes coalitions of governments secured by treaty, including NATO, SEATO, OAS, UN, and associations of governments or government agencies, including the Pan American Union, International Postal Union, and International Monetary Fund. Quasi-government includes eleemosynary relief organizations, such as the Red Cross organizations.

(g) National Communications System (NCS) means that system established by the President's Memorandum of August 21, 1963, “Establishment of a National Communications System” (28 FR 9413, 3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 858).

(h) Executive Agent means the Executive Agent of the National Communications System.

(i) Commission means the Federal Communications Commission.

