(a) The frequency management staff supporting the Director, OSTP, comprised of predesignated personnel from the frequency management staffs of the government user agencies, NTIA and the FCC, will have proceeded to the OSTP relocation site in accordance with alerting orders in force.

(b) Government agencies having need for new radio frequency assignments or for modification of existing assignments involving a change in the frequency usage pattern shall, unless otherwise provided, submit applications therefor to the Director, OSTP, by whatever means of communication are available and appropriate, together with a statement of any preapplication coordination accomplished. The Director, OSTP, will review such applications accomplish the necessary additional coordination insofar as practicable, consider all pertinent views and comments, and grant or deny, as he shall determine, the assignment of such frequencies. All concerned will be informed promptly of his decisions.

(c) Non-Government entities having need for new radio frequency assignments or for modifications of existing assignments will continue to submit applications therefor to the FCC, or in accordance with FCC instructions. Such applications shall be coordinated with the Director, OSTP, and granted subject to the approval of the Director, OSTP, or his delegate.
          

(d) All changes of radio frequency usage within U.S. military theaters of operation will be coordinated with the Director, OSTP, where harmful interference is likely to be caused to stations authorized to operate within the United States and its possessions.

(e) Where submission to the Director, OSTP, is impracticable, the applicant shall:

(1) Consult the NTIA Emergency Readiness Plan for use of the Radio Spectrum and the Government Master File;

(2) Accomplish such coordination as appropriate and possible;

(3) Act in such manner as to have a minimum impact upon established services, accepting the responsibility entailed in taking the temporary action required;

(4) Advise the Director, OSTP, as soon as possible of the action taken, and submit an application for retroactive approval.

