For operations on certain channels in the Public Mobile Services, carriers must attempt to coordinate the proposed use of spectrum with other spectrum users prior to filing an application for authority to operate a station. Rules requiring this procedure for specific channels and types of stations are contained in the subparts governing the individual Public Mobile Services.

(a) Coordination comprises two steps—notification and response. Each step may be accomplished orally or in writing.

(b) Notification must include relevant technical details of the proposal. At minimum, this should include the following:

(1) Geographical coordinates of the antenna site(s).

(2) Transmitting and receiving channels to be added or changed.

(3) Transmitting power, emission type and polarization.

(4) Transmitting antenna pattern and maximum gain.

(5) Transmitting antenna height above ground level.

(c) Applicants and licensees receiving notification must respond promptly, even if no channel usage conflicts are anticipated. If any notified party fails to respond within 30 days, the applicant may file the application without a response from that party.

(d) The 30-day period begins on the date the notification is submitted to the Commission via the ULS. If the notification is by mail, this date may be ascertained by:

(1) The return receipt on certified mail,

(2) The enclosure of a card to be dated and returned by the party being notified, or

(3) A reasonable estimate of the time required for the mail to reach its destination. In this case, the date when the 30-day period will expire must be stated in the notification.

(e) All channel usage conflicts discovered during the coordination process should be resolved prior to filing of the application. If the applicant is unable or unwilling to resolve a particular conflict, the application may be accepted for filing if it contains a statement describing the unresolved conflict and a brief explanation of the reasons why a resolution was not achieved.

(f) If a number of changes in the technical parameters of a proposed facility become necessary during the course of the coordination process, an attempt should be made to minimize the number of separate notifications. If the changes are incorporated into a completely revised notice, the items that were changed from the previous notice should be identified.

(g) In situations where subsequent changes are not numerous or complex, the party receiving the changed notification should make an effort to respond in less than 30 days. If the applicant believes a shorter response time is reasonable and appropriate, it should so indicate in the notice and suggest a response date.

(h) If a subsequent change in the technical parameters of a proposed facility could not affect the facilities of one or more of the parties that received an initial notification, the applicant is not required to coordinate that change with these parties. However, these parties must be advised of the change and of the opinion that coordination is not required.

