A licensee may operate additional transmitters at additional locations on the same channel or channel block as its existing system without obtaining prior Commission approval provided:
                

(a) International coordination. The locations and/or technical parameters of the additional transmitters are such that individual coordination of the channel assignment(s) with a foreign administration, under applicable international agreements and rules in this part, is not required.

(b) Antenna structure registration. Certain antenna structures must be registered with the Commission prior to construction or alteration. Registration requirements are contained in part 17 of this chapter.

(c) Environmental. The additional transmitters must not have a significant environmental effect as defined by §§ 1.1301 through 1.1319 of this chapter.

(d) Paging and Radiotelephone Service. The provisions in this paragraph apply for stations in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service.

(1) The interfering contours of the additional transmitter(s) must be totally encompassed by the composite interfering contour of the existing station (or stations under common control of the applicant) on the same channel, except that this limitation does not apply to nationwide network paging stations or in-building radiation systems.

(2) Additional transmitters in the 43 MHz frequency range operate under developmental authority, subject to the conditions set forth in § 22.411.

(3) The additional transmitters must not operate on control channels in the 72-76 MHz, 470-512 MHz, 928 MHz, 932 MHz, 941 MHz or 959 MHz frequency ranges.

(e) Cellular radiotelephone service. During the five-year build-out period, the service area boundaries of the additional transmitters, as calculated by the method set forth in § 22.911(a), must remain within the market, except that the service area boundaries may extend beyond the market boundary into the area that is part of the CGSA or is already encompassed by the service area boundaries of previously authorized facilities. After the five-year build-out period, the service area boundaries of the additional transmitters, as calculated by the method set forth in § 22.911(a), must remain within the CGSA. Licensees must notify the Commission (FCC Form 601) of any transmitters added under this section that cause a change in the CGSA boundary. The notification must include full size and reduced maps, and supporting engineering, as described in § 22.953(a)(1) through (3). If the addition of transmitters involves a contract service area boundary (SAB) extension (see § 22.912), the notification must include a statement as to whether the five-year build-out period for the system on the relevant channel block in the market into which the SAB extends has elapsed and whether the SAB extends into any unserved area in the market. The notification must be made electronically via the ULS, or delivered to the filing place (see § 1.913 of this chapter) once yearly during the five-year build-out on the anniversary of the license grant date.

(f) Air-ground Radiotelephone Service. Ground stations may be added to Commercial Aviation air-ground systems at previously established ground station locations, pursuant to § 22.859, subject to compliance with the applicable technical rules. This section does not apply to General Aviation air-ground stations.

(g) Rural Radiotelephone Service. A “service area” and “interfering contours” must be determined using the same method as for stations in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service. The service area and interfering contours so determined for the additional transmitter(s) must be totally encompassed by the similarly determined composite service area contour and predicted interfering contour, respectively, of the existing station on the same channel. This section does not apply to Basic Exchange Telecommunications Radio Systems.

(h) Offshore Radiotelephone Service. This section does not apply to stations in the Offshore Radiotelephone Service.

(i) Provision of information upon request. Upon request by the FCC, licensees must supply administrative or technical information concerning the additional transmitters. At the time transmitters are added pursuant to this section, licensees must make a record of the pertinent technical and administrative information so that such information is readily available. See § 22.303.

