Public Mobile Service stations operating in accordance with applicable FCC rules and the terms and conditions of their authorizations are normally considered to be non-interfering. If the FCC determines, however, that interference that significantly interrupts or degrades a radio service is being caused, it may, in accordance with the provisions of sections 303(f) and 316 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, (47 U.S.C. 303(f), 316), require modifications to any Public Mobile station as necessary to eliminate such interference.

(a) Failure to operate as authorized. Any licensee causing interference to the service of other stations by failing to operate its station in full accordance with its authorization and applicable FCC rules shall discontinue all transmissions, except those necessary for the immediate safety of life or property, until it can bring its station into full compliance with the authorization and rules.

(b) Intermodulation interference. Licensees should attempt to resolve such interference by technical means.

(c) Situations in which no protection is afforded. Except as provided elsewhere in this part, no protection from interference is afforded in the following situations:

(1) Interference to base receivers from base or fixed transmitters. Licensees should attempt to resolve such interference by technical means or operating arrangements.

(2) Inteference to mobile receivers from mobile transmitters. No protection is provided against mobile-to-mobile interference.

(3) Interference to base receivers from mobile transmitters. No protection is provided against mobile-to-base interference.

(4) Interference to fixed stations. Licensees should attempt to resolve such interference by technical means or operating arrangements.

(5) Anomalous or infrequent propagation modes. No protection is provided against interference caused by tropospheric and ionospheric propagation of signals.

(6) Facilities for which the Commission is not notified. No protection is provided against interference to the service of any additional or modified transmitter operating pursuant to ยง 1.929 or ยง 22.165, unless and until the licensee modifies its authorization using FCC Form 601.

(7) In-building radiation systems. No protection is provided against interference to the service of in-building radiation systems (see ยง 22.383).

