Because of the potential for interference with the reception by broadcast television sets and video recorders of full service TV stations transmitting on TV Channels 4 and 5, 72-76 MHz channels are assigned for use within 16 kilometers (10 miles) of the antenna of any full service TV station transmitting on TV Channel 4 or 5 only under developmental authorizations subject to the requirements of this section, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.

(a) Carrier responsibility. Carriers so authorized shall operate the 72-76 MHz fixed station under developmental authority for a period of at least six months. During the developmental period, carriers must resolve any broadcast television receiver interference problems that may occur as a result of operation of the 72-76 MHz transmitter(s).

(b) Exceptions. The FCC may grant a regular authorization in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service for a 72-76 MHz fixed station under the following circumstances:

(1) After six months of operation under developmental authorization, and provided that broadcast TV interference complaints have been resolved by the carrier in a satisfactory manner. Licensees that hold a developmental authorization for a 72-76 MHz fixed station and wish to request a regular authorization must file an application using FCC Form 601 via the ULS prior to the expiration of the developmental authorization.

(2) In the case of the assignment of or a transfer of control of a regular authorization of a 72-76 MHz fixed station in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service, the FCC may grant such assignment or consent to such transfer of control provided that the station has been in continuous operation providing service with no substantial interruptions.

(3) If a proposed 72-76 MHz fixed transmitter antenna is to be located within 50 meters (164 feet) of the antenna of the full service TV station transmitting on TV Channel 4 or 5, the FCC may grant a regular authorization instead of a developmental authorization.

