The FCC may grant applications for developmental authority to construct and operate transmitters for the purpose of developing a new Public Mobile Service or a new technology not regularly authorized under this part, subject to the requirements of this section. Such applications may request the use of any portion of the spectrum allocated for Public Mobile Services in the Table of Frequency Allocations contained in part 2 of this chapter, regardless of whether that spectrum is regularly available under this part. Requests to use any portion of the spectrum for a service or purpose other than that indicated in the Table of Frequency Allocations in part 2 of this chapter may be made only in accordance with the provisions of part 5 of this chapter.
              

(a) Preliminary determination. The FCC will make a preliminary determination with respect to the factors in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section before acting on an application for developmental authority pursuant to this section. These factors are:

(1) That the public interest, convenience or necessity warrants consideration of the establishment of the proposed service or technology;

(2) That the proposal appears to have potential value to the public that could warrant the establishment of the new service or technology;

(3) That some operational data should be developed for consideration in any rule making proceeding which may be initiated to establish such service or technology.

(b) Petition required. Applications for developmental authorizations pursuant to this section must be accompanied by a petition for rule making requesting the FCC to amend its rules as may be necessary to provide for the establishment of the proposed service or technology.

(c) Application requirements. Authorizations for developmental authority pursuant to this section will be issued only upon a showing that the applicant has a definite program of research and development which has reasonable promise of substantial contribution to the services authorized by this part. The application must contain an exhibit demonstrating the applicant's technical qualifications to conduct the research and development program, including a description of the nature and extent of engineering facilities that the applicant has available for such purpose. Additionally, the FCC may, in its discretion, require a showing of financial qualification.

(d) Communication service for hire prohibited. Stations authorized under developmental authorizations granted pursuant to this section must not be used to provide communication service for hire, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the FCC.

(e) Adherence to program. Carriers granted developmental authorization pursuant to this section must substantially adhere to the program of research and development described in their application for developmental authorization, unless the FCC directs otherwise.

(f) Report requirements. Upon completion of the program of research and development, or upon the expiration of the developmental authorization under which such program was permitted, or at such times during the term of the station authorization as the FCC may deem necessary to evaluate the progress of the developmental program, the licensee shall submit a comprehensive report, containing:

(1) A description of the progress of the program and a detailed analysis of any result obtained;

(2) Copies of any publications produced by the program;

(3) A listing of any patents applied for, including copies of any patents issued;

(4) Copies of any marketing surveys or other measures of potential public demand for the new service;

(5) A description of the carrier's experiences with operational aspects of the program including—

(i) The duration of transmissions on each channel or frequency range and the technical parameters of such transmissions; and,

(ii) Any interference complaints received as a result of operation and how these complaints were investigated and resolved.

(g) Confidentiality. Normally, applications and developmental reports are a part of the FCC's public records. However, an applicant or licensee may request that the FCC withhold from public records specific exhibits, reports and other material associated with a developmental authorization.

(h) Renewal. Expiring developmental authorizations issued pursuant to this section may be renewed if the carrier—

(1) Shows that further progress in the program of research and development requires additional time to operate under developmental authorization;

(2) Complied with the reporting requirements of paragraph (f) of this section; and,

(3) Immediately resolved to the FCC's satisfaction all complaints of interference caused by the station operating under developmental authority.

