The transmitting power of base, mobile and fixed transmitters operating on the channels listed in ยง 22.561 must not exceed the limits in this section.

(a) Maximum ERP. The effective radiated power (ERP) of base and fixed transmitters must not exceed the applicable limits in this paragraph under any circumstances.

(b) Basic power limit. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the ERP of base transmitters must not exceed 500 Watts.

(c) Height-power limits. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the ERP of base transmitters must not exceed the amount that would result in an average distance to the service contour of 41.6 kilometers (26 miles) for VHF channels or 30.7 kilometers (19 miles) for UHF channels. The average distance to the service contour is calculated by taking the arithmetic mean of the distances determined using the procedures specified in ยง 22.567 for the eight cardinal radial directions, excluding cardinal radial directions for which 90% or more of the distance so calculated is over water.

(d) Encompassed interfering contour areas. Base transmitters are exempt from the basic power and height-power limits of this section if the area within their interfering contours is totally encompassed by the interfering contours of operating co-channel based transmitters controlled by the same licensee. For the purpose of this paragraph, operating transmitters are authorized transmitters that are providing service to subscribers.

(e) Adjacent channel protection. The ERP of base and fixed transmitters must not exceed 500 Watts if they transmit on channel 454.025 MHz and are located less than 7 kilometers (4.3 miles) from any Private Radio Services station receiving on adjacent channel 454.0000 MHz.

(f) Mobile transmitters. The transmitter output power of mobile transmitters must not exceed 60 watts.

