In addition to information required by subparts B and D and ยง 22.529, applications for authorization to operate a paging transmitter on the channels listed in ยง 22.531, other than applications for a paging geographic area authorization, must contain the applicable supplementary information described in this section.

(a) Interference exhibit. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an exhibit demonstrating compliance with ยง 22.567 with regard to protected transmitters is required. This exhibit must:

(1) For UHF channels, identify each protected transmitter located within 108 kilometers (67 miles) of the proposed transmitter in directions in which the distance to the interfering contour is 76.4 kilometers (47.5 miles) or less, and within 178 kilometers (111 miles) of the proposed transmitter in directions in which the distance to the interfering contour exceeds 76.4 kilometers (47.5 miles); and identify each protected Basic Exchange Telephone Radio System central office transmitter in the Rural Radiotelephone Service within 231 kilometers (144 miles),

(2) For VHF channels, identify each protected transmitter located within 135 kilometers (84 miles) of the proposed transmitter in directions in which the distance to the interfering contour is 93.3 kilometers (58 miles) or less, and within 178 kilometers (111 miles) of the proposed transmitter in directions in which the distance to the interfering contour exceeds 93.3 kilometers (58 miles).

(3) For each protected transmitter identified, show the results of distance calculations indicating that there would be no overlap of service and interfering contours, or alternatively, indicate that the licensee of or applicant for the protected transmitter and/or the applicant, as required, have agreed in writing to accept any interference resulting from operation of the proposed transmitter.

(b) Encompassment exhibit. An exhibit showing that the area within the interfering contour of the proposed transmitter would be totally encompassed by interfering contours of operating co-channel base transmitters controlled by the applicant is required for applications to operate a transmitter with ERP exceeding the basic power and height-power limits of ยง 22.565. This encompassment exhibit may substitute for the interference exhibit required in paragraph (a) of this section.

