The rules in this section establish technical assignment criteria for the channels listed in § 22.561. The criteria in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section permit channel assignments to be made in a manner such that reception by public mobile receivers of signals from base transmitters, within the service area of such base transmitters, is protected from interference caused by the operation of independent co-channel base and fixed transmitters in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service and central office stations, including Basic Exchange Telephone Radio Systems (BETRS), in the Rural Radiotelephone Service. Additional criteria in paragraph (g) of this section permit channel assignments to be made in a manner such that BETRS communications are protected from interference caused by the operation of independent co-channel base and fixed transmitters in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service and other central office stations in the Rural Radiotelephone Service. Separate criteria in paragraph (h) of this section apply only to assignment of the channels designated in § 22.561 as mobile channels to base and fixed transmitters, and permit these channel assignments to be made in a manner such that reception by public base and fixed receivers of signals from associated mobile and fixed transmitters is protected from interference caused by the operation of independent co-channel base and fixed transmitters.

(a) Contour overlap. The FCC may grant an application requesting assignment of a channel to a proposed base, fixed or central office station transmitter only if:

(1) The interfering contour of the proposed transmitter does not overlap the service contour of any protected co-channel transmitter controlled by a carrier other than the applicant, unless that carrier has agreed in writing to accept any interference that may result from operation of the proposed transmitter; and

(2) The service contour of the proposed transmitter does not overlap the interfering contour of any protected co-channel transmitter controlled by a carrier other than the applicant, unless the application contains a statement that the applicant agrees to accept any interference that may result from operation of the protected co-channel transmitter; and

(3) The area and/or population to which service would be provided by the proposed transmitter is substantial, and service gained would exceed that lost as a result of agreements to accept interference.
                

(b) Protected transmitter. For the purposes of this section, protected transmitters are authorized transmitters for which there is a current FCC public record and transmitters proposed in prior-filed pending applications, in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service and the Rural Radiotelephone Service.

(c) VHF service contour. For base stations transmitting on the VHF channels, the radial distance from the transmitting antenna to the service contour along each cardinal radial is calculated as follows:
                

(1) Whenever the actual HAAT is less than 30 meters (98 feet), 30 must be used as the value for h in the above formula.

(2) The value used for p in the above formula must not be less than 27 dB less than the maximum ERP in any direction, or 0.1 Watt, whichever is more.

(3) The distance from the transmitting antenna to the service contour along any radial other than the eight cardinal radials is routinely calculated by linear interpolation of distance as a function of angle. However, in resolving petitions to deny, the FCC may calculate the distance to the service contour using the formula in paragraph (c) of this section with actual HAAT and ERP data for the inter-station radial and additional radials above and below the inter-station radial at 2.5° intervals.

(d) VHF interfering contour. For base and fixed stations transmitting on the VHF channels, the radial distance from the transmitting antenna to the interfering contour along each cardinal radial is calculated as follows:

(1) If the radial antenna HAAT is less than 150 meters:
                

Whenever the actual HAAT is less than 30 meters (98 feet), 30 must be used as the value for h in the above formula.

(2) If the radial antenna HAAT is 150 meters or more:
                

(3) The value used for p in the above formulas must not be less than 27 dB less than the maximum ERP in any direction, or 0.1 Watt, whichever is more.

(4) The distance from the transmitting antenna to the interfering contour along any radial other than the eight cardinal radials is routinely calculated by linear interpolation of distance as a function of angle. However, in resolving petitions to deny, the FCC may calculate the distance to the interfering contour using the appropriate formula in paragraph (d) of this section with actual HAAT and ERP data for the inter-station radial and additional radials above and below the inter-station radial at 2.5° intervals.

(e) UHF service contour. For base stations transmitting on the UHF channels, the radial distance from the transmitting antenna to the service contour along each cardinal radial is calculated as follows:
                

(1) Whenever the actual HAAT is less than 30 meters (98 feet), 30 must be used as the value for h in the above formula.

(2) The value used for p in the above formula must not be less than 27 dB less than the maximum ERP in any direction, or 0.1 Watt, whichever is more.

(3) The distance from the transmitting antenna to the service contour along any radial other than the eight cardinal radials is routinely calculated by linear interpolation of distance as a function of angle. However, in resolving petitions to deny, the FCC may calculate the distance to the service contour using the formula in paragraph (e) of this section with actual HAAT and ERP data for the inter-station radial and addition radials above and below the below the inter-station radial at 2.5° intervals.

(f) UHF interfering contour. For base and fixed stations transmitting on the UHF channels, the radial distance from the transmitting antenna to the interfering contour along each cardinal radial is calculated as follows:

(1) If the radial antenna HAAT is less than 150 meters:
                

Whenever the actual HAAT is less than 30 meters (98 feet), 30 must be used as the value for h in the above formula.

(2) If the radial antenna HAAT is 150 meters or more:
                

(3) The value used for p in the above formula must not be less than 27 dB less than the maximum ERP in any direction, or 0.1 Watt, whichever is more.

(4) The distance from the transmitting antenna to the interfering contour along any radial other than the eight cardinal radials is routinely calculated by linear interpolation of distance as a function of angle. However, in resolving petitions to deny, the FCC may calculate the distance to the interfering contour using the appropriate formula in paragraph (f) of this section with actual HAAT and ERP data for the inter-station radial and additional radials above and below the inter-station radial at 2.5° intervals.

(g) Protection for BETRS. In applying the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, if either or both of the transmitters involved is a BETRS central office station, the following contour substitutions must be used:

(1) The service contour of the BETRS central office station(s) is a circle, centered on the central office station antenna, with a radius of 40 kilometers (25 miles).

(2) The interfering contour of any station of any type, when determining whether it would overlap the service contour of a BETRS central office station, is calculated as follows:
                

Whenever the actual HAAT is less than 30 meters (98 feet), 30 must be used as the value for h in the above formula. The value used for p in the above formula must not be less than 27 dB less than the maximum ERP in any direction, or 0.1 Watt, whichever is more.

(h) Assignment of mobile channels to base or fixed transmitters. Mobile channels may be assigned to base or fixed transmitters if the following criteria are met:

(1) The paired base channel, as designated in § 22.561, is assigned to base transmitters in the same geographical area operated by the same licensee.

(2) The authorization is granted subject to the condition that no interference be caused to fixed receivers in use on or prior to the date of the grant.

