In addition to information required by subparts B and D of this part, applications for authorization in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service contain required information as described in the instructions to the form. Site coordinates must be referenced to NAD83 and be correct to +-1 second.

(a) Administrative information. The following information, associated with Form 601, is required as indicated. Each application of any type, including applications for paging geographic area authorizations, must contain one and only one Schedule A.

(1) The purpose of the filing is required for each application of any type.

(2) The geographic area designator, channel and geographic area name are required only for each application for a paging geographic area authorization.

(3) The FCC control point number, if any, the location (street address, city or town, state), the telephone number and an indication of the desired database action are required only for each application proposing to add or delete a control point.

(4) The FCC location number, file number and location (street address, city or town, state) of authorized facilities that have not been constructed are required only for each application requesting an extension of time to construct those facilities.

(b) Technical data. The following data, associated with FCC Form 601, are required as indicated for each application. Applications for a paging geographic area authorization must not contain Schedule B. Other type of applications may contain as many Schedule Bs as are necessary for the intended purpose.

(1) For each transmitting antenna site to be added, deleted or modified, the following are required: an indication of the desired database action, the Commission location number, if any, the street address or other description of the transmitting antenna site, the city, county and state, the geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude), correct to ±1 second, of the transmitting antenna site (NAD83), and in the case of a proposed relocation of a transmitting antenna, the Commission location number and geographic coordinates, correct to ±1 second, of the transmitting antenna site (NAD83) to which the geographic coordinates of the current location are referenced.

(2) For each transmitting antenna site to be added, deleted or modified, the following supplementary information is required: An indication as to whether or not the transmitting antenna site is within 200 kilometers (124 miles) of the U.S.-Mexico border, and an indication as to whether or not the transmitting antenna site is North of Line A or East of Line C. Line A and Line C are defined in § 2.1 of this chapter. For each adjacent geographic area within 200 kilometers (124 miles) of each transmitting antenna site to be added, deleted or modified, the geographic area designator and name, and the shortest distance (in kilometers) to the boundary of that geographic area.

(3) The height (in meters) above average terrain of the center of radiation of the antenna, the beamwidth of the main lobe of the horizontal radiation pattern of the electric field of the antenna, the height (in meters) to the tip of the antenna above ground level, a polar plot of the horizontal gain pattern of the antenna, the antenna gain in the maximum lobe and the electric field polarization of the wave emitted by the antenna when installed as proposed.

(i) The center frequency of the requested channel, the transmitter classification (e.g. base, fixed mobile), the designator for any non-standard emission type to be used, including bandwidth and modulation type, and the maximum effective radiated power.

(ii) For each of the eight cardinal radials, the antenna height above the average elevation along the radial, and the effective radiated power of each transmitter in the direction of the radial.

(iii) For each transmitter proposed to transmit on a channel reserved for point-to-multipoint operation involving transmission to four or more points of communications (i.e. base transmitters), the following is required for each point of communication: an indication of the desired database action, the location (city or town, state), and the geographical coordinates (latitude and longitude, NAD 83).

(c) Upon request by an applicant, licensee, or the Commission, a part 22 applicant or licensee of whom the request is made shall furnish the antenna type, model, and the name of the antenna manufacturer to the requesting party within ten (10) days of receiving written notification.

