The effective radiated power (ERP) of transmitters operating on the channels listed in ยง 22.531 must not exceed the limits in this section.

(a) Maximum ERP. The ERP must not exceed the applicable limits in this paragraph under any circumstances.

(b) Basic power limit. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the ERP of transmitters on the VHF channels must not exceed 500 Watts.

(c) Height-power limit. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the ERP of transmitters on the VHF channels must not exceed the amount that would result in an average distance to the service contour of 32.2 kilometers (20 miles). The average distance to the service contour is calculated by taking the arithmetic mean of the distances determined using the procedures specified in ยง 22.537 for the eight cardinal radial directions, excluding cardinal radial directions for which 90% or more of the distance so calculated is over water.

(d) Encompassed interfering contour areas. Transmitters are exempt from the basic power and height-power limits of this section if the area within their interfering contours is totally encompassed by the interfering contours of operating co-channel base transmitters controlled by the same licensee. For the purpose of this paragraph, operating transmitters are authorized transmitters that are providing service to subscribers.

(e) Adjacent channel protection. The ERP of transmitters must not exceed 500 Watts if they:

(1) Transmit on a channel in the 152-159 MHz frequency range and are located less than 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) from any station licensed in the Private Radio Services that receives on an adjacent channel; or,

(2) Transmit on channel 158.10 or 158.70 MHz and are located less than 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) from any station licensed in the Public Mobile Services that receives on either of the following adjacent channels: 158.07 MHz or 158.67 MHz.

(f) Signal boosters. The effective radiated power of signal boosters must not exceed 5 watts ERP under any normal operating condition.

