The Cellular Geographic Service Area (CGSA) of a cellular system is the geographic area considered by the FCC to be served by the cellular system. The CGSA is the area within which cellular systems are entitled to protection and within which adverse effects for the purpose of determining whether a petitioner has standing are recognized.

(a) CGSA determination. The CGSA is the composite of the service areas of all of the cells in the system, excluding any area outside the cellular market boundary, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, and excluding any area within the CGSA of another cellular system. The service area of a cell is the area within its service area boundary (SAB). The distance to the SAB is calculated as a function of effective radiated power (ERP) and antenna center of radiation height above average terrain (HAAT), height above sea level (HASL) or height above mean sea level (HAMSL).
              

(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (b) of this section, the distance from a cell transmitting antenna to its SAB along each cardinal radial is calculated as follows:
              

(2) The distance from a cell transmitting antenna located in the Gulf of Mexico Service Area (GMSA) to its SAB along each cardinal radial is calculated as follows:
              

(3) The value used for h in the formula in paragraph (a)(2) of this section must not be less than 8 meters (26 feet) HASL (or HAMSL, as appropriate for the support structure). The value used for h in the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must not be less than 30 meters (98 feet) HAAT, except that for unserved area applications proposing a cell with an ERP not exceeding 10 Watts, the value for h used in the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to determine the service area boundary for that cell may be less than 30 meters (98 feet) HAAT, but not less than 3 meters (10 feet) HAAT.

(4) The value used for p in the formulas in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section must not be less than 0.1 Watt or 27 dB less than (1/500 of) the maximum ERP in any direction, whichever is more.

(5) Whenever use of the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section pursuant to the exception contained in paragraph (a)(3) of this section results in a calculated distance that is less than 5.4 kilometers (3.4 miles), the radial distance to the service area boundary is deemed to be 5.4 kilometers (3.4 miles).

(6) The distance from a cell transmitting antenna to the SAB along any radial other than the eight cardinal radials is calculated by linear interpolation of distance as a function of angle.

(b) Alternative CGSA determination. If a carrier believes that the method described in paragraph (a) of this section produces a CGSA that departs significantly (±20% in the service area of any cell) from the geographic area where reliable cellular service is actually provided, the carrier may submit, as an exhibit to an application for modification of the CGSA using FCC Form 601, a depiction of what the carrier believes the CGSA should be. Such submissions must be accompanied by one or more supporting propagation studies using methods appropriate for the 800-900 MHz frequency range, including all supporting data and calculations, and/or by extensive field strength measurement data. For the purpose of such submissions, cellular service is considered to be provided in all areas, including “dead spots”, between the transmitter location and the locus of points where the predicted or measured median field strength finally drops to 32 dBµV/m (i.e. does not exceed 32 dBµV/m further out). If, after consideration of such submissions, the FCC finds that adjustment to a CGSA is warranted, the FCC may grant the application.

(1) The alternative CGSA determination must define the CGSA in terms of distances from the cell sites to the 32 dBuV/m contour along the eight cardinal radials, with points in other azimuthal directions determined by the method given in paragraph (a)(6) of this section. The distances used for the cardinal radials must be representative of the coverage within the 45° sectors, as depicted by the alternative CGSA determination.

(2) If an uncalibrated predictive model is used to depict the CGSA, the alternative CGSA determination must identify factors (e.g. terrain roughness or features) that could plausibly account for the difference between actual coverage and that defined by the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If actual measurements or a measurement-calibrated predictive model are used to depict the CGSA, and this fact is disclosed in the alternative CGSA determination, it is not necessary to offer an explanation of the difference between actual coverage and that defined by the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is clearly inapplicable for the cell(s) in question (e.g. for microcells), this should be disclosed in the alternative CGSA determination.

(3) The provision for alternative CGSA determinations was made in recognition that the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is a general model that provides a reasonable approximation of coverage in most land areas, but may under-predict or over-predict coverage in specific areas with unusual terrain roughness or features, and may be inapplicable for certain purposes, e.g., cells with a coverage radius of less than 8 kilometers (5 miles). In such cases, alternative methods that utilize more specific models are appropriate. Accordingly, the FCC does not consider use of the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section with parameters outside of the limits in paragraphs (a)(3), (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section or with data for radials other than the cardinal radials to be a valid alternative method for determining the CGSA of a cellular system.

(c) CGSA extension areas. SAB extensions (areas outside of the cellular market boundary, but within the service area as calculated using the methods of paragraph (a) of this section) are part of the CGSA only under the following circumstances:

(1) During the five year build-out period of the system in the cellular market containing the extension, the licensees of systems on the same channel block in adjacent cellular markets may agree that the portion of the service area of one system that extends into unserved areas in the other system's cellular market is part of the CGSA of the former system.

(2) At the end of the five year build-out period of the system in the cellular market containing the extension, the portion of the service area that extends into unserved areas in another cellular market becomes part of the CGSA, provided that the licensee of the system so extended files a system information update in accordance with § 22.947(c).

(3) For original systems in MSAs, extensions of the CGSA authorized by the FCC are part of the CGSA to the extent authorized.

(d) Protection afforded. Within the CGSA determined in accordance with this section, cellular systems are entitled to protection from co-channel and first-adjacent channel interference and from capture of subscriber traffic by adjacent systems on the same channel block.

(1) Licensees must cooperate in resolving co-channel and first-adjacent channel interference by changing channels used at specific cells or by other technical means.

(2) Protection from capture of subscriber traffic is applied and limited in accordance with the following:

(i) Subscriber traffic is captured if an SAB of one cellular system overlaps the CGSA of another operating cellular system. Therefore, cellular licensees must not begin to operate any facility that would cause an SAB to overlap the existing CGSA of another cellular system on the same channel block, without first obtaining the written consent of the licensee of that system. However, cellular licensees may continue to operate existing facilities that produce an SAB overlapping a subsequently-authorized portion of the CGSA of another cellular system on the same channel block until the licensee of that system requests that the SAB be removed from its CGSA. Such request may be made directly to the licensee of the overlapping system or to the FCC. In the event such request is made, the licensee of the overlapping system must reduce the transmitting power or antenna height (or both) at the pertinent cell site as necessary to remove the SAB from the CGSA of the other system, unless a written consent from the licensee of the other system allowing the SAB to remain is obtained. Cellular licensees may enter into contracts with the licensees of other cellular systems on the same channel block to allow SABs to overlap CGSAs.

(ii) Cellular licensees are at most entitled to have a CGSA free of SABs from other cellular systems on the same channel block.

(e) Unserved areas. Unserved areas are areas outside of all existing CGSAs (on either of the channel blocks), to which the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, is applicable.

