The licensee of each cellular system is responsible for ensuring that its cellular system operates in compliance with this section.

(a) Each cellular system must provide either mobile service, fixed service, or a combination of mobile and fixed service, subject to the requirements, limitations and exceptions in this section. Mobile service provided may be of any type, including two way radiotelephone, dispatch, one way or two way paging, and personal communications services (as defined in part 24 of this chapter). Fixed service is considered to be primary service, as is mobile service. When both mobile and fixed service are provided, they are considered to be co primary services. In providing cellular services, each cellular system may incorporate any technology that meets all applicable technical requirements in this part.

(b) Until February 18, 2008, each cellular system that provides two-way cellular mobile radiotelephone service must—

(1) Maintain the capability to provide compatible analog service (“AMPS”) to cellular telephones designed in conformance with the specifications contained in sections 1 and 2 of the standard document ANSI TIA/EIA-553-A-1999 Mobile Station—Base Station Compatibility Standard (approved October 14, 1999); or, the corresponding portions, applicable to mobile stations, of whichever of the predecessor standard documents was in effect at the time of the manufacture of the telephone. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the standard may be purchased from Global Engineering Documents, 15 Inverness Way East, Englewood, CO 80112-5704 (or via the internet at http://global.ihs.com). Copies are available for inspection at the Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW, Washington, DC 20554, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
              

(2) Provide AMPS, upon request, to subscribers and roamers using such cellular telephones while such subscribers are located in any portion of the cellular system's CGSA where facilities have been constructed and service to subscribers has commenced. See also § 20.12 of this chapter. Cellular licensees must allot sufficient system resources such that the quality of AMPS provided, in terms of geographic coverage and traffic capacity, is fully adequate to satisfy the concurrent need for AMPS availability.

