This section contains rules governing service area boundary (SAB) extensions. SAB extensions are areas outside of the cellular market boundary, but within the service area as calculated using the methods of ยง 22.911(a). Cellular systems must be designed to comply with the rules in this section. Applications proposing systems that would not comply with the rules in this section are defective. Service within SAB extensions is not protected from interference or capture under ยง 22.911(d) unless and until the area within the SAB extension becomes a part of the cellular geographic service area (CGSA) in accordance with ยง 22.911(c).

(a) De minimis extensions. Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, SABs may be extended into adjacent cellular markets if such extensions are de minimis, are demonstrably unavoidable for technical reasons of sound engineering design, and do not extend into the CGSA of any other licensee's cellular system on the same channel block, any part of the Gulf of Mexico Exclusive Zone (GMEZ), or into any adjacent cellular market on a channel block for which the five year build-out period has expired.

(b) Contract extensions. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d) of this section, cellular system licensees may enter into contracts to allow SAB extensions as follows:

(1) The licensee of any cellular system may, at any time, enter into a contract with an applicant for, or licensee of, a cellular system on the same channel block in an adjacent cellular market, to allow one or more SAB extensions into its CGSA only (not into unserved area).

(2) The licensee of the first authorized cellular system on each channel block in the Gulf of Mexico Service Area (GMSA) may enter into a contract with an applicant for, or licensee of, a cellular system on the same channel block in an adjacent cellular market or in the Gulf of Mexico Coastal Zone (GMCZ), to allow one or more SAB extensions into the Gulf of Mexico Exclusive Zone.

(3) The licensee of the first authorized cellular system on each channel block in each cellular market may enter into a contract with an applicant for or licensee of a cellular system on the same channel block in an adjacent cellular market, to allow one or more SAB extensions into its CGSA and/or unserved area in its cellular market, during its five year build-out period.

(b) Contract extensions. Except as restricted in paragraph (d) of this section, licensees of cellular systems on the same channel block in adjacent cellular markets may, at any time, enter into contracts with applicants or other licensees to allow SAB extensions into their CGSA only (not into unserved areas). Except as restricted in paragraph (d) of this section, licensees of the first authorized cellular systems on the same channel block in adjacent cellular markets may agree to allow SAB extensions into their CGSA and/or unserved areas in their cellular markets during the five year build-out period of the market into which the SAB extends.

(c) Same applicant/licensee. Except as restricted in paragraph (d) of this section, licensees of cellular systems that are also an applicant or licensee on the same channel block in adjacent cellular markets may, at any time, allow or propose SAB extensions from their adjacent market system into their CGSH only (not into unserved areas). Except as restricted in paragraph (d) of this section, licensees of the first authorized cellular systems that are also an applicant or licensee on the same channel block in adjacent cellular markets may allow or propose SAB extensions from their adjacent market system into their CGSA and/or unserved areas in their cellular markets during the five year build-out period of the market into which the SAB extends.

(d) Unserved area systems. Phase I initial cellular applications must not propose SAB extensions. Phase I sole major modification applications and Phase II applications may propose SAB extensions, subject to the conditions in this section.

