The GMSA has been divided into two areas for licensing purposes, the Gulf of Mexico Exclusive Zone (GMEZ) and the Gulf of Mexico Coastal Zone (GMCZ). This section describes these areas and sets forth the process for licensing facilities in these two respective areas within the GMSA.

(a) The GMEZ and GMCZ are defined as follows:

(1) Gulf of Mexico Exclusive Zone. The geographical area within the Gulf of Mexico Service Area that lies between the coastline line and the southern demarcation line of the Gulf of Mexico Service Area, excluding the area comprising the Gulf of Mexico Coastal Zone.

(2) Gulf of Mexico Coastal Zone. The geographical area within the Gulf of Mexico Service Area that lies between the coast line of Florida and a line extending approximately twelve nautical miles due south from the coastline boundary of the States of Florida and Alabama, and continuing along the west coast of Florida at a distance of twelve nautical miles from the shoreline. The line is defined by Great Circle arcs connecting the following points (geographical coordinates listed as North Latitude, West Longitude) consecutively in the order listed:

(b) Service Area Boundary Calculation. The service area boundary of a cell site located within the Gulf of Mexico Service Area is calculated pursuant to § 22.911(a)(2). Otherwise, the service area boundary is calculated pursuant to §§ 22.911(a)(1) or 22.911(b).

(c) Operation within the Gulf of Mexico Exclusive Zone (GMEZ). GMEZ licensees have exclusive right to provide service in the GMEZ, and may add, modify, or remove facilities anywhere within the GMEZ without prior Commission approval. There is no five-year buildout period for GMEZ licensees, no requirement to file system information update maps pursuant to § 22.947, and no unserved area licensing procedure for the GMEZ.

(d) Operation within the Gulf of Mexico Coastal Zone (GMCZ). The GMCZ is subject to the Phase II unserved area licensing procedures set forth in § 22.949(b).

