The effective radiated power (ERP) of transmitters in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service must not exceed the limits in this section.

(a) Maximum ERP. In general, the effective radiated power (ERP) of base transmitters and cellular repeaters must not exceed 500 Watts. However, for those systems operating in areas more than 72 km (45 miles) from international borders that:

(1) Are located in counties with population densities of 100 persons or fewer per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census; or,

(2) Extend coverage on a secondary basis into cellular unserved areas, as those areas are defined in ยง 22.949, the ERP of base transmitters and cellular repeaters of such systems must not exceed 1000 Watts. The ERP of mobile transmitters and auxiliary test transmitters must not exceed 7 Watts.

(b) Height-power limit. The ERP of base transmitters must not exceed the amount that would result in an average distance to the service area boundary of 79.1 kilometers (49 miles) for cellular systems authorized to serve the Gulf of Mexico MSA and 40.2 kilometers (25 miles) for all other cellular systems. The average distance to the service area boundary is calculated by taking the arithmetic mean of the distances determined using the procedures specified in ยง 22.911 for the eight cardinal radial directions.

(c) Coordination exemption. Licensees need not comply with the height-power limit in paragraph (b) of this section if the proposed operation is coordinated with the licensees of all affected cellular systems on the same channel block within 121 kilometers (75 miles) and concurrence is obtained.

