In addition to information required by subparts B and D of this part, applications for authorization in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service contain required information as described in the instructions to the form. Site coordinates must be referenced to NAD83 and be correct to ±1 second.

(a) Administrative information. The following information is required either by FCC Form 601, or as an exhibit:

(1) Location description; city; county; state; geographical coordinates correct to ±1 second, the datum used (NAD 83), site elevation above mean sea level, proximity to adjacent market boundaries and international borders;

(2) Antenna height to tip above ground level, the height of the center of radiation of the antenna above the average terrain, the height of the antenna center of radiation above the average elevation of the terrain along each of the 8 cardinal radials, antenna gain in the maximum lobe, the beamwidth of the maximum lobe of the antenna, a polar plot of the horizontal gain pattern of the antenna, the electric field polarization of the wave emitted by the antenna when installed as proposed:
              

(3) The channel block requested, the maximum effective radiated power, the effective radiated power in each of the cardinal radial directions.

(b) If the application involves a service area boundary (SAB) extension (§ 22.912 of this chapter), the licensee must provide a statement as described in § 22.953.

(c) Maps. If the application proposes a change in the CGSA, it must include full size and reduced maps, and supporting engineering, as described in § 22.953 (a)(1) through (a)(3).

(d) Antenna Information. Upon request by an applicant, licensee, or the Commission, a cellular applicant or licensee of whom the request is made shall furnish the antenna type, model, and the name of the antenna manufacturer to the requesting party within ten (10) days of receiving written notification.

