(a) Eligibility—(1) Generally. Parties seeking approval for partitioning and disaggregation shall request an authorization for partial assignment of a license pursuant to § 1.948 of this chapter. Cellular licensees may partition or disaggregate their spectrum to other qualified entities.

(2) Partitioning. During the five year build-out period, as defined in § 22.947, cellular licensees may partition any portion of their cellular market to other qualified entities. After the five year build-out period, cellular licensees and unserved area licensees may partition any portion of their Cellular Geographic Service Area (CGSA), as defined by § 22.911, to other qualified entities but may not partition unserved portions of their cellular market.

(3) Disaggregation. After the five year build-out period, as defined in § 22.947, parties obtaining disaggregated spectrum may only use such spectrum in that portion of the cellular market encompassed by the original licensee's CGSA and may not use such spectrum to provide service to unserved portions of the cellular market.

(b) Disaggregation. Cellular licensees and unserved area licensees may disaggregate spectrum in any amount.

(c) Combined partitioning and disaggregation. The Commission will consider requests for partial assignment of cellular licenses that propose combinations of partitioning and disaggregation.

(d) License Term. The license term for the partitioned license area and for disaggregated spectrum shall be the remainder of the original cellular licensee's or the unserved area licensee's license term.

