Applications for authority to operate a cellular system in an unserved area must comply with the specifications in this section.

(a) Applications for authority to operate a cellular system in an unserved area must include the following information in addition to the requirements specified in §§ 1.919, 1.923 and 1.924. The following exhibits must be set off by tabs and numbered as follows:

(1) Exhibit I—full-size map. The scale of the full-size map must be 1:500,000, regardless of whether any different scale is used for the reduced map required in Exhibit II. The map must have a legend, a distance scale and correctly labeled latitude and longitude lines. The map must be clear and legible. The map must accurately show the cell sites (transmitting antenna locations), the entire CGSA, any extension of the composite service area boundary beyond the CGSA (see § 22.911) and the relevant portions of the cellular market boundary.

(2) Exhibit II—reduced map. This map must be a proportional reduction, to 81/2 × 11 inches, of the full-size map required for Exhibit I, unless it proves to be impractical to depict the entire cellular market by reducing the full-size map. In such instance, an 81/2×11 inch map of a different scale may be substituted, provided that the required features of the full-size map are clearly depicted and labeled.

(3) Exhibit III—engineering. This exhibit must contain the data and methodology used to calculate the CGSA and service area boundary.

(4) Exhibit IV—channel plan. This exhibit must show which specific channels (or groups) are to be used at each cell site. Any necessary table for converting channel numbers to center frequencies must be provided.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) Exhibit VI—service proposal. This exhibit must describe the services proposed for subscribers and roamers, including the proposed method for handling complaints.

(7) Exhibit VII—cellular design. This exhibit must show that the proposed system design complies with cellular system design concepts, and must describe the method proposed to expand the system in a coordinated fashion as necessary to address changing demand for cellular service.

(8) Exhibit VIII—blocking level. This exhibit must disclose the blocking probability or other criteria to be used to determine whether it is necessary to take measures to increase system capacity to maintain service quality.

(9) Exhibit IX—start-up expenses. This exhibit must disclose in detail the projected cost of construction and other initial expenses of the proposed system, and how the applicant intends to meet these expenses and the costs of operation for the first year.

(10) Exhibit X—interconnection arrangements. This exhibit is required for applicants that provide public landline message telephone service in any portion of the proposed CGSA. This exhibit must describe exactly how the proposed system would interconnect with the landline network. The description must be of sufficient detail to enable a competitor to connect with the landline system in exactly the same manner, if the competitor so chooses.

(b) Existing systems—major modifications. Licensees making major modifications pursuant to § 1.929(a) and (b) of this chapter, must file FCC Form 601 and need only contain the exhibits required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section.

(c) Existing systems—minor modifications. Licensees making minor modifications pursuant to § 1.929(k) of this chapter—in which the modification causes a change in the CGSA boundary (including the removal of a transmitter or transmitters)—must notify the FCC (using FCC Form 601) and include full-sized maps, reduced maps, and supporting engineering exhibits as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. If the modification involves a contract SAB extension, it must include a statement as to whether the five-year build-out for the system on the relevant channel block in the market into which the SAB extends has elapsed, and as to whether the SAB extends into any unserved area in that market.

