(a) Registration of reimbursement rights. (1) To obtain reimbursement, a PCS relocator must submit documentation of the relocation agreement to the clearinghouse within ten business days of the date a relocation agreement is signed with an incumbent.

(2) To obtain reimbursement, a voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent must submit documentation of the relocation of the link to the clearinghouse within ten business days of the date that the incumbent notifies the Commission that it intends to discontinue, or has discontinued, the use of the link, pursuant to § 101.305 of the Commission's rules.

(b) Documentation of expenses. Once relocation occurs, the PCS relocator or the voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent, must submit documentation itemizing the amount spent for items listed in § 24.243(b). The voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent, must also submit an independent third party appraisal of its compensable relocation costs. The appraisal should be based on the actual cost of replacing the incumbent's system with comparable facilities and should exclude the cost of any equipment upgrades or items outside the scope of § 24.243(b). The PCS relocator or the voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent, must identify the particular link associated with appropriate expenses (i.e., costs may not be averaged over numerous links). If a PCS relocator pays a microwave incumbent a monetary sum to relocate its own facilities, the PCS relocator must estimate the costs associated with relocating the incumbent by itemizing the anticipated cost for items listed in § 24.243(b). If the sum paid to the incumbent cannot be accounted for, the remaining amount is not eligible for reimbursement. A PCS relocator may submit receipts or other documentation to the clearinghouse for all relocation expenses incurred since April 5, 1995.

(c) Full Reimbursement. A PCS relocator who relocates a microwave link that is either fully outside its market area or its licensed frequency band may seek full reimbursement through the clearinghouse of compensable costs, up to the reimbursement cap as defined in § 24.243(b). Such reimbursement will not be subject to depreciation under the cost-sharing formula.

