(a) Licensed PCS. The clearinghouse will apply the following test to determine if a PCS entity preparing to initiate operations must pay a PCS relocator or a voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent in accordance with the formula detailed in ยง 24.243:

(1) All or part of the relocated microwave link was initially co-channel with the licensed PCS band(s) of the subsequent PCS entity;

(2) A PCS relocator has paid the relocation costs of the microwave incumbent; and

(3) The subsequent PCS entity is preparing to turn on a fixed base station at commercial power and the fixed base station is located within a rectangle (Proximity Threshold) described as follows:

(i) The length of the rectangle shall be x where x is a line extending through both nodes of the microwave link to a distance of 48 kilometers (30 miles) beyond each node. The width of the rectangle shall be y where y is a line perpendicular to x and extending for a distance of 24 kilometers (15 miles) on both sides of x. Thus, the rectangle is represented as follows:

(ii) If the application of the Proximity Threshold test indicates that a reimbursement obligation exists, the clearinghouse will calculate the reimbursement amount in accordance with the cost-sharing formula and notify the subsequent PCS entity of the total amount of its reimbursement obligation.

(b) Unlicensed PCS. UTAM's reimbursement obligation is triggered either:

(1) When a county is cleared of microwave links in the unlicensed allocation, and UTAM invokes a Zone 1 power cap as a result of third party relocation activities; or

(2) A county is cleared of microwave links in the unlicensed allocation and UTAM reclassifies a Zone 2 county to Zone 1 status.

(c) Any new entrants granted licenses for the 1910-1915 MHz band must reimburse UTAM a pro rata share of its total expenses incurred by UTAM as of the date that the new entrants gain access to the band. The percent required by new entrants to pay shall be calculated based upon the amount of spectrum granted to the new entrant as compared to the total amount of spectrum UTAM is responsible for clearing of incumbents (20 megahertz), and must be paid before a new entrant begins operations in the band. For example, if a new entrant obtains a license for 5 megahertz of spectrum in this band, it is required to reimburse UTAM one-quarter of UTAM's total costs to date on a pro rata shared basis. New entrants will be responsible for the actual costs associated with future relocation activities in their licensed spectrum, but will be entitled to seek reimbursement from UTAM for the proportion of those band clearing costs that benefit users of the 1915-1930 MHz band.

