(a) Timing. On the day that a PCS entity files its prior coordination notice (PCN) in accordance with ยง 101.103(d) of this chapter, it must file a copy of the PCN with the clearinghouse. The clearinghouse will determine if any reimbursement obligation exists and notify the PCS entity in writing of its repayment obligation, if any. When the PCS entity receives a written copy of such obligation, it must pay directly to the PCS relocator or the voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent the amount owed within thirty days, with the exception of those businesses that qualify for installment payments. A business that qualifies for an installment payment plan must make its first installment payment within thirty days of notice from the clearinghouse. UTAM's first payment will be due thirty days after its reimbursement obligation is triggered, as described in ยง 24.247(b).

(b) Eligibility for Installment Payments. PCS licensees that are allowed to pay for their licenses in installments under our designated entity rules will have identical payment options available to them with respect to payments under the cost-sharing plan. The specific terms of the installment payment mechanism, including the treatment of principal and interest, are the same as those applicable to the licensee's installment auction payments. If, for any reason, the entity eligible for installment payments is no longer eligible for such installment payments on its license, that entity is no longer eligible for installment payments under the cost-sharing plan. UTAM may make quarterly payments over a five-year period with an interest rate of prime plus 2.5 percent. UTAM may also negotiate separate repayment arrangements with other parties.

