Other FCC rule parts applicable to licensees in the personal communications services include the following:

(a) Part 0. This part describes the Commission's organization and delegations of authority. Part 0 of this chapter also lists available Commission publications, standards and procedures for access to Commission records, and location of Commission Field Offices.

(b) Part 1. This part includes rules of practice and procedure for license applications, adjudicatory proceedings, procedures for reconsideration and review of the Commission's actions; provisions concerning violation notices and forfeiture proceedings; and the environmental requirements that, if applicable, must be complied with prior to the initiation of construction. Subpart F includes the rules for the Wireless Telecommunications Services and the procedures for filing electronically via the ULS.

(c) Part 2. This part contains the Table of Frequency Allocations and special requirements in international regulations, recommendations, agreements, and treaties. This part also contains standards and procedures concerning the marketing and importation of radio frequency devices, and for obtaining equipment authorization.

(d) Part 5. This part contains rules prescribing the manner in which parts of the radio frequency spectrum may be made available for experimentation.

(e) Part 15. This part contains rules setting out the regulations under which an intentional, unintentional, or incidental radiator may be operated without an individual license. It also contains the technical specifications, administrative requirements and other conditions relating to the marketing of part 15 devices. Unlicensed PCS devices operate under subpart D of part 15.

(f) Part 17. This part contains requirements for construction, marking and lighting of antenna towers.

(g) Part 20 of this chapter governs commercial mobile radio services.

(h) Part 21. This part contains rules concerning multipoint distribution service and multichannel multipoint distribution service.
              

(i) Part 68. This part contains technical standards for connection of terminal equipment to the telephone network.

(j) Part 101. This part contains rules concerning common carrier and private services relating to fixed point-to-point and point-to-multipoint microwave systems.

