
                Assigned Frequency. The center of the frequency band assigned to a station.


                Authorized Bandwidth. The maximum width of the band of frequencies permitted to be used by a station. This is normally considered to be the necessary or occupied bandwidth, whichever is greater.


                Average Terrain. The average elevation of terrain between 3 and 16 kilometers from the antenna site.


                Base Station. A land station in the land mobile service.


                Broadband PCS. PCS services operating in the 1850-1890 MHz, 1930-1970 MHz, 2130-2150 MHz, and 2180-2200 MHz bands.


                Effective Radiated Power (e.r.p.) (in a given direction). The product of the power supplied to the antenna and its gain relative to a half-wave dipole in a given direction.


                Equivalent Isotropically Radiated Power (e.i.r.p.). The product of the power supplied to the antenna and the antenna gain in a given direction relative to an isotropic antenna.


                Fixed Service. A radiocommunication service between specified fixed points.


                Fixed Station. A station in the fixed service.


                Land Mobile Service. A mobile service between base stations and land mobile stations, or between land mobile stations.


                Land Mobile Station. A mobile station in the land mobile service capable of surface movement within the geographic limits of a country or continent.


                Land Station. A station in the mobile service not intended to be used while in motion.


                Mobile Service. A radiocommunication service between mobile and land stations, or between mobile stations.


                Mobile Station. A station in the mobile service intended to be used while in motion or during halts at unspecified points.


                Narrowband PCS. PCS services operating in the 901-902 MHz, 930-931 MHz, and 940-941 MHz bands.


                National Geodetic Reference System (NGRS): The name given to all geodetic control data contained in the National Geodetic Survey (NGS) data base. (Source: National Geodetic Survey, U.S. Department of Commerce)


                PCS Relocator. A PCS entity that pays to relocate a fixed microwave link from its existing 2 GHz facility to other media or other fixed channels.


                Personal Communications Services (PCS). Radio communications that encompass mobile and ancillary fixed communication that provide services to individuals and businesses and can be integrated with a variety of competing networks.


                Universal Licensing System. The Universal Licensing System (ULS) is the consolidated database, application filing system, and processing system for all Wireless Radio Services. ULS supports electronic filing of all applications and related documents by applicants and licensees in the Wireless Radio Services, and provides public access to licensing information.


                UTAM. The Unlicensed PCS Ad Hoc Committee for 2 GHz Microwave Transition and Management, which coordinates relocation in the 1910-1930 MHz band.


                Voluntarily Relocating Microwave Incumbent A microwave incumbent that voluntarily relocates its licensed facilities to other media or fixed channels.

