(a)(1) Each license for an earth station governed by this part, except for mobile satellite earth station terminals (METs), shall specify as a condition therein the period in which construction of facilities must be completed and station operation commenced. Construction of the earth station must be completed and the station must be brought into operation within 12 months from the date of the license grant except as may be determined by the Commission for any particular application.

(2) Each license for mobile satellite earth station terminals (METs) shall specify as a condition therein the period in which station operation must be commenced. The networks in which the METs will be operated must be brought into operation within 12 months from the date of the license grant except as may be determined by the Commission for any particular application.

(b)(1) Each license for a transmitting earth station included in this part, except for earth stations licensed under a blanket licensing provision, shall also specify as a condition therein that upon the completion of construction, each licensee must file with the Commission a certification containing the following information:

(i) The name of the licensee;

(ii) File number of the application;

(iii) Call sign of the antenna;

(iv) Date of the license;

(v) A certification that the facility as authorized has been completed and that each antenna facility has been tested and is within 2 dB of the pattern specified in § 25.209, § 25.135 (NVNG MSS earth stations), or § 25.213 (1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service earth stations);

(vi) The date on which the earth station became operational; and

(vii) A statement that the station will remain operational during the license period unless the license is submitted for cancellation.

(2) For earth stations authorized under any blanket licensing provision in this chapter, a certification containing the information in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be filed when the network is put into operation.

(c) If the facility does not meet the technical parameters set forth in § 25.209, a request for a waiver must be submitted and approved by the Commission before operations may commence.

(d) Each receiving earth station licensed or registered pursuant to § 25.131 must be constructed and placed into service within 6 months after coordination has been completed. Each licensee or registrant must file with the Commission a certification that the facility is completed and operating as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, with the exception of certification of antenna patterns.

