(a) Each applicant for a blanket earth station license in the non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service shall demonstrate that transceiver operations will not cause unacceptable interference to other authorized users of the spectrum, based on existing system information publicly available at the Commission at the time of filing, and will comply with operational conditions placed upon the systems with which they are to operate in accordance with § 25.142(b). This demonstration shall include a showing as to all the technical parameters, including duty cycle and power limits, under which the individual user transceivers will operate.

(b) Transceiver units associated with the non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service may not be operated on civil aircraft. All portable or hand-held transceiver units (including transceiver units installed in other devices that are themselves portable or hand-held) having a receiver operating in the 137-138 MHz band shall bear the following statement in a conspicuous location on the device: “This device may not be operated while on board a civil aircraft. It must be turned off at all times while on board such an aircraft.” This subsection shall not apply to transceiver units whose receivers are incapable of radiating in the 108-137 MHz frequency bands.

(c) Transceiver units in this service are authorized to communicate with and through U.S. authorized space stations only. No person without an FCC license for such operation may transmit to a space station in this service from anywhere in the United States except to receive service from the holder of a pertinent FCC blanket license or from another party with the permission of such a blanket licensee.

(d) The holder of an FCC blanket license for operation of transceivers for communication via a non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite system shall be responsible for operation of any such transceiver to receive service provided by the blanket licensee or provided by another party with the blanket licensee's consent. Operators of non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite systems shall not transmit communications to or from user transceivers in the United States unless such communications are authorized under a service contract with the holder of a pertinent FCC blanket license or under a service contract another party with authority for such transceiver operation delegated by such a blanket licensee.

