(a) The Commission may request from any party at any time additional information concerning any application, or any other submission or pleading regarding an application, filed under this part.

(b) Applicants, permittees and licensees of radio stations governed by this part shall provide the Commission with all information it requires for the Advance Publication, Coordination and Notification of frequency assignments pursuant to the international Radio Regulations. No protection from interference caused by radio stations authorized by other Administrations is guaranteed unless coordination procedures are timely completed or, with respect to individual administrations, by successfully completing coordination agreements. Any radio station authorization for which coordination has not been completed may be subject to additional terms and conditions as required to effect coordination of the frequency assignments with other Administrations.

(c) In the Direct Broadcast Satellite service, applicants and licensees shall also provide the Commission with all information it requires in order to modify the Appendix 30 Broadcasting-Satellite Service (“BSS”) Plans and associated Appendix 30A feeder-link Plans, if the system uses technical characteristics differing from those specified in the Appendix 30 BSS Plans, the Appendix 30A feederlink Plans, Annex 5 to Appendix 30 or Annex 3 to Appendix 30A. For such systems, no protection from interference caused by radio stations authorized by other Administrations is guaranteed until the agreement of all affected Administrations is obtained and the frequency assignment becomes a part of the appropriate Region 2 BSS and feeder-link Plans. Authorizations for which coordination is not completed and/or for which the necessary agreements under Appendices 30 and 30A have not been obtained may be subject to additional terms and conditions as required to effect coordination or obtain the agreement of other Administrations. Applicants and licensees shall also provide the Commission with the necessary Appendix 4 information required by the ITU Radiocommunication Bureau to advance publish, coordinate and notify the frequencies to be used for tracking, telemetry and control functions of DBS systems.

