(a) Construction permits are not required for satellite earth stations. Construction of such stations may commence prior to grant of a license at the applicant's own risk. Applicants must comply with the provisions of 47 CFR 1.1312 relating to environmental processing prior to commencing construction. Applicants filing applications that propose the use of one or more new or existing antenna structures requiring registration under part 17 of this chapter must also comply with any applicable environmental notification process specified in § 17.4(c) of this chapter.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) FAA notification. Before the construction of new antenna structures or alteration in the height of existing antenna structures is authorized by the FCC, a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) determination of “no hazard” may be required. To apply for this determination, the FAA must be notified of the planned construction. Criteria used to determine whether FAA notification is required for a particular antenna structure are contained in part 17 of this chapter. Applications proposing construction of one or more new antenna structures or alteration of the overall height of one or more existing antenna structures, where FAA notification prior to such construction or alteration is not required by part 17 of this chapter, must indicate such and, unless the reason is obvious (e.g. structure height is less than 6.10 meters AGL) must contain a statement explaining why FAA notification is not required.

(d) Painting and lighting. The owner of each antenna structure required to be painted and/or illuminated under the provisions of Section 303(q) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, shall operate and maintain the antenna structure painting and lighting in accordance with part 17 of this chapter. In the event of default by the owner, each licensee or permittee shall be individually responsible for conforming to the requirements pertaining to antenna structure painting and lighting.

(e) Antenna Structure Registration Number. Applications proposing construction of one or more new antenna structures or alteration of the overall height of one or more existing structures, where FAA notification prior to such construction or alteration is required by part 17 of this chapter, must include the FCC Antenna Structure Registration Number(s) for the affected structure(s). If no such number has been assigned at the time the application is filed, the applicant must state in the application whether or not the antenna structure owner has notified the FAA of the proposed construction or alteration and applied to the FCC for an Antenna Structure Registration Number in accordance with part 17 of this chapter for the antenna structure in question.

(f) Construction permits are not required for U.S.-licensed space stations. Construction of such stations may commence, at the applicant's own risk, prior to grant of a license. Prior to commencing construction, however, applicants must notify the Commission in writing they plan to begin construction at their own risk.

(g) Except as set forth in paragraph (h) of this section, a launch authorization and station license (i.e., operating authority) must be applied for and granted before a space station may be launched and operated in orbit. Request for launch authorization may be included in an application for space station license. However, an application for authority to launch and operate an on-ground spare satellite will be considered pursuant to the following procedures:

(1) Applications for launch and operation of an on-ground spare NGSO-like satellite will be considered pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 25.157, except as set forth in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(2) Applications for launch and operation of an on-ground spare GSO-like satellite will be considered pursuant to the procedures set forth in § 25.158, except as set forth in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(3) Neither paragraph (g)(1) nor (g)(2) of this section will apply in cases where the space station to be launched is determined to be an emergency replacement for a previously authorized space station that has been lost as a result of a launch failure or a catastrophic in-orbit failure.

(h) Licensees of Non-Geostationary Satellite Orbit (NGSO) satellite systems need not file separate applications to operate technically identical in-orbit spares authorized as part of a blanket license pursuant to § 25.114(e) or any other satellite blanket licensing provision in this part. However, the licensee shall notify the Commission within 30 days of bringing the in-orbit spare into operation, and certify that operation of this space station did not cause the licensee to exceed the total number of operating space stations authorized by the Commission, and that the licensee will operate the space station within the applicable terms and conditions of its license. These notifications must be filed electronically on FCC Form 312.

