(a) Except as provided in § 25.210(b), in general all rules contained in this part apply to Fixed-Satellite Service in the 20/30 GHz bands.

(b) System License. Applicants authorized to construct and launch a system of technically identical non-geostationary satellite orbit satellites will be awarded a single “blanket” license covering a specified number of space stations to operate in a specified number of orbital planes.

(c) In addition to providing the information specified in § 25.114, each non-geostationary satellite orbit applicant shall demonstrate the following:

(1) That the proposed system be capable of providing fixed-satellite services to all locations as far north as 70 deg. latitude and as far south as 55 deg. latitude for at least 75% of every 24-hour period; and

(2) That the proposed system is capable of providing fixed-satellite services on a continuous basis throughout the fifty states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, U.S.

(3) [Reserved]

(d) [Reserved]

(e) Prohibition of certain agreements. No license shall be granted to any applicant for a space station in the fixed-satellite service operating in the 20/30 GHz band if that applicant, or any persons or companies controlling or controlled by the applicant, shall acquire or enjoy any right, for the purpose of handling traffic to or from the United States, its territories or possession, to construct or operate space segment or earth stations, or to interchange traffic, which is denied to any other United States company by reason of any concession, contract, understanding, or working arrangement to which the Licensee or any persons or companies controlling or controlled by the Licensee are parties.

(f)(1) Reporting Requirements. All licensees in the 20/30 GHz band shall, on June 30 of each year, file a report with the International Bureau and the Commission's Columbia Operations Center, 9200 Farm House Lane, Columbia, MD 21046 containing the following information:

(i) Status of space station construction and anticipated launch date, including any major problems or delay encountered;

(ii) A listing of any non-scheduled space station outages for more than thirty minutes and the cause(s) of such outages; and

(iii) Identification of any space station(s) not available for service or otherwise not performing to specifications, the cause(s) of these difficulties, and the date any space station was taken out of service or the malfunction identified.

(iv) All operators of NGSO FSS systems in the 18.8-19.3 GHz and 28.6-29.1 GHz bands shall, within 10 days after a required implementation milestone as specified in the system authorization certify to the Commission by affidavit that the milestone has been met or notify the Commission by letter that it has not been met. At its discretion, the Commission may require the submission of additional information (supported by affidavit of a person or person with knowledge thereof) to demonstrate that the milestone has been met. Failure to file a timely certification of milestones, or filing disclosure of non-compliance, will result in automatic cancellation of the authorization with no further action required on the Commission's part.

(2) Licensees shall submit to the Commission a yearly report indicating the number of earth stations actually brought into service under its blanket licensing authority. The annual report is due to the Commission no later than the first day of April of each year and shall indicate the deployment figures for the preceding calendar year.

(g) Policy governing the relocation of terrestrial services from the 18.3 to 19.3 GHz band. Frequencies in the 18.3-19.3 GHz band listed in parts 21, 74, 78, and 101 of this chapter have been reallocated for primary use by the Fixed-Satellite Service, subject to various provisions for the existing terrestrial licenses. Fixed-Satellite Service operations are not entitled to protection from the co-primary operations until after the period during which terrestrial stations remain co-primary has expired. (see §§ 21.901(e), 74.502(c), 74.602(g), 78.18(a)(4), and 101.147(r) of this chapter).

(h) Replacement of Space Stations within the System License Term. Licensees of NGSO FSS systems in the 18.8-19.3 GHz and 28.6-29.1 GHz frequency bands authorized through a blanket license pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section need not file separate applications to launch and operate technically identical replacement satellites within the term of the system authorization. However, the licensee shall certify to the Commission, at least thirty days prior to launch of such replacement(s) that:

(1) The licensee intends to launch a space station into the previously-authorized orbit that is technically identical to those authorized in its system authorization and

(2) Launch of this space station will not cause the license to exceed the total number of operating space stations authorized by the Commission.

(i) In-Orbit Spares. Licensees need not file separate applications to operate technically identical in-orbit spares authorized as part of the blanket license pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. However, the licensee shall certify to the Commission, within 10 days of bringing the in-orbit spare into operation, that operation of this space station did not cause the licensee to exceed the total number of operating space stations authorized by the Commission.

