(a) Applications for a new or modified transmitting earth station facility shall be submitted on FCC Form 312, and associated Schedule B, accompanied by any required exhibits, except for those earth station applications filed on FCC Form 312EZ pursuant to § 25.115(a). All such earth station license applications must be filed electronically through the International Bureau Filing System (IBFS) in accordance with the applicable provisions of part 1, subpart Y of this chapter. Additional filing requirements for Earth Stations on Vessels are described in §§ 25.221 and 25.222. Additional filing requirements for Vehicle-Mounted Earth Stations are described in § 25.226. In addition, applicants not required to submit applications on Form 312EZ, other than ESV or VMES applicants, must submit the following information to be used as an “informative” in the public notice issued under § 25.151 as an attachment to their application:

(1) A detailed description of the service to be provided, including frequency bands and satellites to be used. The applicant must identify either the specific satellite(s) with which it plans to operate, or the eastern and western boundaries of the arc it plans to coordinate.

(2) The diameter or equivalent diameter of the antenna.

(3) Proposed power and power density levels.

(4) Identification of any random access technique, if applicable.

(5) Identification of a specific rule or rules for which a waiver is requested.

(b) A frequency coordination analysis in accordance with § 25.203 shall be provided for earth stations transmitting in the frequency bands shared with equal rights between terrestrial and space services, except that applications for user transceiver units associated with the NVNG mobile-satellite service shall instead provide the information required by § 25.135 and applications for user transceiver units associated with the 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service shall demonstrate that user transceiver operations comply with the requirements set forth in § 25.213.

(c) In those cases where an applicant is filing a number of essentially similar applications, showings of a general nature applicable to all of the proposed stations may be submitted in the initial application and incorporated by reference in subsequent applications.

(d) Transmissions of signals or programming to non-U.S. licensed satellites, and to and/or from foreign points by means of U.S.-licensed fixed satellites may be subject to restrictions as a result of international agreements or treaties. The Commission will maintain public information on the status of any such agreements.

(e) Each application proposing construction of one or more earth station antennas or alteration of the overall height of one or more existing earth station antennas, where FAA notification prior to such construction or alteration is required by part 17 of this chapter, must include the FCC Antenna Structure Registration Number(s) for the affected satellite earth station antenna(s). If no such number has been assigned at the time the application(s) is filed, the applicant must state in the application whether the satellite earth station antenna owner has notified the FAA of the proposed construction or alteration and applied to the FCC for an antenna Structure Registration Number in accordance with part 17 of this chapter. Applications proposing construction of one or more earth station antennas or alteration of the overall height of one or more existing earth station antennas, where FAA notification prior to such construction or notification or alteration is not required by part 17 of this chapter, must indicate such and, unless the satellite earth station antenna is 6.10 meters or less above ground level (AGL), must contain a statement explaining why FAA notification is not required.

(f) Applicants seeking to operate in a shared government/non-government band must provide the half-power beam width of their proposed earth station antenna, as an attachment to their applications.

