(a) In circumstances requiring immediate or temporary use of facilities, request may be made for special temporary authority to install and/or operate new or modified equipment. The request must contain the full particulars of the proposed operation including all facts sufficient to justify the temporary authority sought and the public interest therein. No request for temporary authority will be considered unless it is received by the Commission at least 3 working days prior to the date of proposed construction or operation or, where an extension is sought, the expiration date of the existing temporary authorization. A request received within less than 3 working days may be accepted only upon due showing of extraordinary reasons for the delay in submitting the request which could not have been earlier foreseen by the applicant. A copy of the request for special temporary authority also shall be forwarded to the Commission's Columbia Operations Center, 9200 Farm House Lane, Columbia, MD 21046-1609.

(b)(1) The Commission may grant a temporary authorization only upon a finding that there are extraordinary circumstances requiring temporary operations in the public interest and that delay in the institution of these temporary operations would seriously prejudice the public interest. Convenience to the applicant, such as marketing considerations or meeting scheduled customer in-service dates, will not be deemed sufficient for this purpose.

(2) The Commission may grant a temporary authorization for a period not to exceed 180 days, with additional periods not exceeding 180 days, if the Commission has placed the special temporary authority (STA) request on public notice.

(3) The Commission may grant a temporary authorization for a period not to exceed 60 days, if the STA request has not been placed on public notice, and the applicant plans to file a request for regular authority for the service.

(4) The Commission may grant a temporary authorization for a period not to exceed 30 days, if the STA request has not been placed on public notice, and an application for regular authority is not contemplated.

(c) Each application proposing construction of one or more earth station antennas or alteration of the overall height of one or more existing earth station antenna structures, where FAA notification prior to such construction or alteration is required by part 17 of this chapter, must include the FCC Antenna Structure Registration Number(s) for the affected satellite earth station antenna(s). If no such number has been assigned at the time the application(s) is filed, the applicant must state in the application whether the satellite earth station antenna owner has notified the FAA of the proposed construction or alteration and applied to the FCC for an Antenna Structure Registration Number in accordance with part 17 of this chapter. Applications proposing construction of one or more earth station antennas or alteration of the overall height of one or more existing earth station antennas, where FAA notification prior to such construction or alteration is not required by part 17 of this chapter, must indicate such and, unless the satellite earth station antenna is 6.10 meters or less above ground level (AGL), must contain a statement explaining why FAA notification is not required.

