(a) Licensees of geostationary orbit satellite systems other than DBS and DARS satellite systems, including GSO MSS satellite systems, licensed on or after August 27, 2003 will be required to comply with the schedule set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section in implementing their satellite systems, unless a different schedule is established by Title 47, Chapter I, or by Commission Order, or by Order adopted pursuant to delegated authority. These dates are to be measured from the date the license is issued.

(1) One year: Enter into a binding non-contingent contract to construct the licensed satellite system.

(2) Two years: Complete the critical design review of the licensed satellite system.

(3) Three years: Begin the construction of the satellite.

(4) Five years: Launch and operate the satellite.
                

(b) Licensees of non-geostationary orbit satellite systems other than DBS and DARS satellite systems licensed on or after September 11, 2003, will be required to comply with the schedule set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section in implementing their satellite systems, unless a different schedule is established by Title 47, Chapter I, or by Commission Order, or by Order adopted pursuant to delegated authority. These dates are to be measured from the date the license is issued.

(1) One year: Enter into a binding non-contingent contract to construct the licensed satellite system.

(2) Two years: Complete the critical design review of the licensed satellite system.

(3) Two years, six months: Begin the construction of the first satellite in the licensed satellite system.

(4) Three years, six months: Launch and operate the first satellite in the licensed satellite system.

(5) Six years: Bring all the satellites in the licensed satellite system into operation.

(c) Licensees of all satellite systems, other than DBS and DARS satellite systems, licensed on or after September 11, 2003, will be required to submit a copy of their binding non-contingent contract with the Commission on or before the date scheduled for entering into such a contract.

(d) Licensees of all satellite systems, other than DBS and DARS satellite systems, licensed on or after September 11, 2003, will be required to submit information to the Commission sufficient to demonstrate that the licensee has completed the critical design review of the licensed satellite system on or before the date scheduled for entering into such completion.

(e) Licensees of all satellite systems, other than DBS and DARS satellite systems, licensed on or after September 11, 2003, will be required to submit information to the Commission sufficient to demonstrate that the licensee has commenced physical construction of its licensed spacecraft on or before the date scheduled for such commencement.

(f) In cases where the Commission grants a satellite authorization in different stages, such as a license for a satellite system using feeder links or intersatellite links, the earliest of the milestone schedules shall be applied to the entire satellite system.

(g) Licensees of satellite systems that include both non-geostationary orbit satellites and geostationary orbit satellites, other than DBS and DARS satellite systems, and licensed on or after September 20, 2004 will be required to comply with the schedule set forth in paragraph (a) of this section with respect to the geostationary orbit satellites, and with the schedule set forth in paragraph (b) of this section with respect to the non-geostationary orbit satellites.

