(a) You must file an application for Commission authorization before you can transfer, assign, dispose of (voluntarily or involuntarily, directly or indirectly, or by transfer of control of any corporation or any other entity) your station license or accompanying rights. The Commission will grant your application only if it finds that doing so will serve the public interest, convenience and necessity.

(b) For purposes of this section, transfers of control requiring Commission approval shall include any and all transactions that:

(1) Change the party controlling the affairs of the licensee, or

(2) Affect any change in a controlling interest in the ownership of the licensee, including changes in legal or equitable ownership.

(c) Assignment of license. You must submit an FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule A to voluntarily assign (e.g., as by contract or other agreement) or involuntarily assign (e.g., as by death, bankruptcy, or legal disability) your station authorization. You must file these forms electronically through IBFS.

(d) Transfer of control of corporation holding license. If you want to transfer control of a corporation, which holds one or more licenses voluntarily or involuntarily (de jure or de facto), you must submit an FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule A. You must file these forms electronically through IBFS. For involuntary transfers, you must file your application within 10 days of the event causing the transfer of control. You can also use FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule A for non-substantial (pro forma) transfers of control.

(e) Whenever a group of station licenses in the same radio service for the same class of facility licensed to the same entity is to be assigned or transferred to a single assignee or transferee, a single application may be filed to cover the entire group, if the application identifies in an exhibit each station by call sign, station location and expiration date of license.

(f) Assignments and transfers of control shall be completed within 60 days from the date of authorization. Within 30 days of consumation, the Commission shall be notified by letter of the date of consummation and the file numbers of the applications involved in the transaction.

(g) The Commission retains discretion in reviewing assignments and transfers of control of space station licenses to determine whether the initial license was obtained in good faith with the intent to construct a satellite system.

