(a) License Term. (1) Except for licenses for DBS space stations, SDARS space stations and terrestrial repeaters, and 17/24 GHz BSS space stations licensed as broadcast facilities, licenses for facilities governed by this part will be issued for a period of 15 years.

(2) Licenses for DBS space stations and 17/24 GHz BSS space stations licensed as broadcast facilities, and for SDARS space stations and terrestrial repeaters, will be issued for a period of 8 years. Licenses for DBS space stations not licensed as broadcast facilities will be issued for a period of 10 years.

(b) The Commission reserves the right to grant or renew station licenses for less than 15 years if, in its judgment, the public interest, convenience and necessity will be served by such action.

(c) For earth stations, the license term will be specified in the instrument of authorization.

(d) Space stations. (1) For geostationary satellite orbit satellites, the license term will begin at 3 a.m. EST on the date the licensee certifies to the Commission that the satellite has been successfully placed into orbit and that the operations of the satellite fully conform to the terms and conditions of the space station radio authorization.

(2) For non-geostationary satellite orbit satellites, the license term will begin at 3 a.m. EST on the date that the licensee certifies to the Commission that its initial space station has been successfully placed into orbit and that the operations of that satellite fully conform to the terms and conditions of the space station system authorization. All space stations launched and brought into service during the 15-year license term shall operate pursuant to the system authorization, and the operating authority for all space stations will terminate upon the expiration of the system license.

(e) Renewal of licenses. Applications for renewals of earth station licenses must be submitted on FCC Form 312R no earlier than 90 days, and no later than 30 days, before the expiration date of the license. Applications for space station system replacement authorization for non-geostationary orbit satellites shall be filed no earlier than 90 days, and no later than 30 days, prior to the end of the twelfth year of the existing license term.

