(a) All applications for a blanket earth station license in the GSO FSS in the 18.3-18.8 GHz, 19.7-20.2 GHz, 28.35-28.6 GHz, and 29.25-30.0 GHz bands that meet the following requirements shall be routinely processed:

(1) GSO FSS earth station antenna off-axis EIRP spectral density for co-polarized signals shall not exceed the following values, within ±3° of the GSO arc, under clear sky conditions:

(2) GSO FSS earth station antenna off-axis EIRP spectral density for co-polarized signals shall not exceed the following values, for all directions other than within ±3° of the GSO arc, under clear sky conditions:

(3) The values given in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section may be exceeded by 3 dB, for values of θ >10°, provided that the total angular range over which this occurs does not exceed 20° when measured along both sides of the GSO arc.

(4) GSO FSS earth station antenna off-axis EIRP spectral density for cross-polarized signals shall not exceed the following values, in all directions relative to the GSO arc, under clear sky conditions:

(5) For earth stations employing uplink power control, the values in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (4) of this section may be exceeded by up to 20 dB under conditions of uplink fading due to precipitation. The amount of such increase in excess of the actual amount of monitored excess attenuation over clear sky propagation conditions shall not exceed 1.5 dB or 15 % of the actual amount of monitored excess attenuation in dB, whichever is larger, with a confidence level of 90 percent except over transient periods accounting for no more than 0.5% of the time during which the excess is no more than 4.0 dB.

(6) Power flux-density (PFD) at the Earth's surface produced by emissions from a space station for all conditions, including clear sky, and for all methods of modulation shall not exceed a level of −118 dBW/m2/MHz, in addition to the limits specified in § 25.208 (d).

(b) Each applicant for earth station license(s) that proposes levels in excess of those defined in paragraph (a) of this section shall submit link budget analyses of the operations proposed along with a detailed written explanation of how each uplink and each transmitted satellite carrier density figure is derived. Applicants shall also submit a narrative summary which must indicate whether there are margin shortfalls in any of the current baseline services as a result of the addition of the applicant's higher power service, and if so, how the applicant intends to resolve those margin short falls. Applicants shall certify that all potentially affected parties (i.e., those GSO FSS satellite networks that are 2, 4, and 6 degrees apart) acknowledge and do not object to the use of the applicant's higher power densities.

(c) Licensees authorized pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall bear the burden of coordinating with any future applicants or licensees whose proposed compliant operations at 6 degrees or smaller orbital spacing, as defined by paragraph (a) of this section, is potentially or actually adversely affected by the operation of the non-compliant licensee. If no good faith agreement can be reached, however, the non-compliant licensee shall reduce its earth station and space station power density levels to be compliant with those specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) The applicant shall provide for each earth station antenna type, a series of radiation patterns measured on a production antenna performed on a calibrated antenna range and, as a minimum, shall be made at the bottom, middle, and top frequencies of the 30 GHz band. The radiation patterns are:

(1) Co-polarized patterns for each of two orthogonal senses of polarizations in two orthogonal planes of the antenna.

(i) In the azimuth plane, plus and minus 10 degrees and plus and minus 180 degrees.

(ii) In the elevation plane, zero to 30 degrees.

(2) Cross-polarization patterns in the E- and H-planes, plus and minus 10 degrees.

(3) Main beam gain.

(e) Protection of receive earth stations from adjacent satellite interference is based on either the antenna performance specified in § 25.209 (a) and (b), or the actual receiving earth station antenna performance, if actual performance provides greater isolation from adjacent satellite interference. For purposes of insuring the correct level of protection, the applicant shall provide, for each earth station antenna type, the antenna performance plots for the 20 GHz band, including the format specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(f) The earth station licensee shall not transmit towards a GSO FSS satellite unless it has prior authorization from the satellite operator or a space segment vendor authorized by the satellite operator. The specific transmission shall be conducted in accordance with the operating protocol specified by the satellite operator. The holder of an FCC blanket license pursuant to this section shall be responsible for operation of any transceiver to receive GSO FSS service provided by that licensee or provided by another party with the blanket licensee's consent. Operators of GSO FSS systems shall not transmit communications to or from user transceivers in the United States unless such communications are authorized under a service contract with the holder of a pertinent FCC blanket license or under a service contract with another party with authority for such transceiver operation delegated by such a blanket licensee.

(g) A licensee applying to renew its license must include on FCC Form 405 the number of constructed earth stations.

