(a) This section specifies the Commission's procedures for considering license applications for “GSO-like satellite systems.” For purposes of this section, the term “GSO-like satellite system” is defined as a GSO satellite designed to communicate with earth stations with directional antennas. Examples of GSO-like satellite systems are those which use earth stations with antennas with directivity towards the satellites, such as FSS, and MSS feeder links which use GSO satellites. GSO-like satellite systems are satellite systems that are not NGSO-like satellite systems within the meaning of § 25.157(a).

(b) Applications for GSO-like satellite system licenses will be placed in a queue and considered in the order that they are filed, pursuant to the following procedure:

(1) The application will be reviewed to determine whether it is acceptable for filing within the meaning of § 25.112. If not, the application will be returned to the applicant.

(2) If the application is acceptable for filing, the application will be placed on public notice pursuant to § 25.151, and interested parties will be given an opportunity to file pleadings pursuant to § 25.154.

(3) The application will be granted only if it meets each of the following criteria:

(i) After review of the application and any pleadings filed in response to that application, the Commission finds that the application meets the standards of § 25.156(a); and

(ii) The proposed satellite will not cause harmful interference to any previously licensed operations.

(c) An applicant for a GSO-like satellite system license is not allowed to transfer, assign, or otherwise permit any other entity to assume its place in any queue.

(d) In the event that two or more GSO-like satellite system license applications are mutually exclusive within the meaning of § 25.155(c), the Commission will consider those applications pursuant to the following procedure:

(1) Each application will be reviewed to determine whether it is acceptable for filing within the meaning of § 25.112. Any application not found acceptable for filing will be returned to the applicant.

(2) All applications that are acceptable for filing will be placed on public notice pursuant to § 25.151, and interested parties will be given an opportunity to file pleadings pursuant to § 25.154.

(3) Each application will be granted if it meets the criteria of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, and otherwise will be denied.

(4) In the event that two or more applications are granted pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the available bandwidth at the orbital location or locations in question will be divided equally among those licensees.

(5) Licensees whose licenses are granted pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section will be allowed to select the particular band segment it wishes to use no earlier than 60 days before they plan to launch the first satellite in its system, and no later than 30 days before that date, by submitting a letter to the Secretary of the Commission. The licensee shall serve copies of this letter to the other participants in the processing round pursuant to § 1.47 of this chapter.

(6) Licensees whose licenses are granted pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section shall request contiguous bandwidth in both the uplink and downlink band. Each licensee's bandwidth selection shall not preclude other licensees from selecting contiguous bandwidth.

(7) If two or more licensees whose licenses are granted pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section request the same band segment, all licensees other than the first one to request that particular band segment will be required to make another selection.
                

(e) Services offered pursuant to a GSO-like license in a frequency band granted before the Commission has adopted frequency-band-specific service rules for that band will be subject to the default service rules in § 25.217.

