(a)(1) VSAT networks operating in the 12/14 GHz bands. All applications for digital VSAT networks granted on or before September 15, 2005, with a maximum outbound downlink EIRP density of +10.0 dBW/4 kHz per carrier and earth station antennas with maximum input power density of -14 dBW/4 kHz will be processed routinely. All applications for analog VSAT networks with maximum outbound downlink power densities of +17.0 dBW/4 kHz per carrier and maximum antenna input power densities of -8.0 dBW/4 kHz shall be processed routinely in accordance with Declaratory Order in the Matter of Routine Licensing of Earth Stations in the 6 GHz and 14 GHz Bands Using Antennas Less than 9 Meters and 5 Meters in Diameter, Respectively, for Both Full Transponder and Narrowband Transmissions, 2 FCC Rcd 2149 (1987) (Declaratory Order).

(a)(2) Large Networks of Small Antennas operating in the 4/6 GHz frequency bands. All applications for digital and/or analog operations will be routinely processed provided the network employs antennas that are 4.5 meter or larger in diameter, that are consistent with § 25.209, the power levels are consistent with §§ 25.211(d) and 25.212(d), and frequency coordination has been satisfactorily completed. The use of smaller antennas or non-consistent power levels require the filing of an initial lead application (§ 25.115(c)(2)) that includes all technical analyses required to demonstrate that unacceptable interference will not be caused to any and all affected adjacent satellite operators by the operation of the non-conforming earth station.

(b) VSAT networks operating in the 11.7-12.2 GHz and 14.0-14.5 GHz band. Each applicant for digital and/or analog VSAT network authorization proposing to use transmitted satellite carrier EIRP densities and/or maximum antenna input power in excess of those specified in paragraph (a) of this Section must comply with the procedures set forth in § 25.220.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) An application for VSAT authorization shall be filed on FCC Form 312, Main Form and Schedule B.

(e) VSAT operators in the 11.7-12.2 GHz and 14.0-14.5 GHz frequency bands are permitted to use more than one hub earth station in their networks.

(f) VSAT operators in the 11.7-12.2 GHz and 14.0-14.5 GHz frequency bands are permitted to use temporary fixed earth stations as either hub earth stations or remote earth stations in their networks, but must specify the number of temporary fixed earth stations they plan to use in their networks at the time of their applications.

(g) Starting March 10, 2005, all applications for VSAT service in the 12/14 GHz band that meet the following requirements will be routinely processed: (1) The maximum transmitter power spectral density of a digital modulated carrier into any GSO FSS earth station antenna shall not exceed −14.0 − 10log(N) dB(W/4 kHz). For a VSAT network using frequency division multiple access (FDMA) or time division multiple access (TDMA) technique, N is equal to one. For a VSAT network using code division multiple access (CDMA) technique, N is the maximum number of co-frequency simultaneously transmitting earth stations in the same satellite receiving beam.

(2) The maximum GSO FSS satellite EIRP spectral density of the digital modulated emission shall not exceed 10 dB (W/4kHz) for all methods of modulation and accessing techniques.

(3) The maximum transmitter power spectral density of an analog carrier into any GSO FSS earth station antenna shall not exceed −8.0 dB(W/4kHz) and the maximum GSO FSS satellite EIRP spectral density shall not exceed +17.0 dB(W/4kHz).

(4) Any earth station applicant filing an application to operate a VSAT network after December 24, 2008 in the Ku-band and planning to use a contention protocol must certify that its contention protocol usage will be reasonable.

(h) VSAT operators licensed pursuant to this section are prohibited from using remote earth stations in their networks that are not designed to stop transmissions from their remote earth stations when synchronization with the target satellite fails.

