(a) A non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service system licensee (“NVNG licensee”) time-sharing spectrum in the 400.15-401.0 MHz band shall not transmit signals into the “protection areas” of Department of Defense (“DoD”). When calculating the protection areas for a DoD satellite in the 400.15-401 MHz band, a NVNG licensee shall use an earth station elevation angle of five degrees towards the DoD satellite and will shut off its transmissions prior to the NVNG licensee's service area, based on an elevation angle of zero degrees towards the NVNG licensee's satellite, overlapping the DoD protection area. A NVNG licensee is responsible for obtaining the necessary ephemeris data. This information shall be updated system-wide at least once per week. A NVNG licensee shall use an orbital propagator algorithm with an accuracy equal to or greater than the NORAD propagator used by DoD.

(b) A NVNG licensee time sharing spectrum in the 400.15-401 MHz band shall establish a 24-hour per day contact person and telephone number so that claims of harmful interference into DoD earth station users and other operational issues can be reported and resolved expeditiously. This contact information shall be made available to DoD or its designee. If the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (“NTIA”) notifies the Commission that DoD is receiving unacceptable interference from a NVNG licensee, the Commission will require such NVNG licensee to terminate its interfering operations immediately unless it demonstrates to the Commission's reasonable satisfaction, and that of NTIA, that it is not responsible for causing harmful interference into the worldwide DoD system. A NVNG licensee assumes the risk of any liability or damage that it and its directors, officers, employees, affiliates, agents and subcontractors may incur or suffer in connection with an interruption of its non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service, in whole or in part, arising from or relating to its compliance or noncompliance with the requirements of this paragraph (b). The Commission will not hesitate to impose sanctions on a NVNG licensee time-sharing spectrum in the 400.15-401 MHz band with DoD, including monetary forfeitures and license revocations, when appropriate.

(c) Each satellite in a NVNG licensee's system time-sharing spectrum with DoD in the 400.15-401 MHz band shall automatically turn off and cease satellite transmissions if, after 72 consecutive hours, no reset signal is received from the NVNG licensee's gateway earth station and verified by the satellite. All satellites in such NVNG licensee's system shall be capable of instantaneous shutdown on any sub-band upon command from such NVNG licensee's gateway earth station.

(d) Initially, a NVNG licensee time-sharing spectrum with DoD in the 400.15-401 MHz band shall be able to change the frequency on which its system satellites are operating within 125 minutes of receiving notification from a DoD required frequency change in the 400.15-401 MHz band. Thereafter, when a NVNG licensee constructs additional gateway earth stations located outside of North and South America, it shall use its best efforts to decrease to 90 minutes the time required to implement a DoD required frequency change. A NVNG licensee promptly shall notify the Commission and NTIA of any decrease in the time it requires to implement a DoD required frequency change.

(e) Once a NVNG licensee time-sharing spectrum with DoD in the 400.15-401 MHz band demonstrates to DoD that it is capable of implementing a DoD required frequency change within the time required under paragraph (d) of this section, thereafter, such NVNG licensee shall demonstrate its capability to implement a DoD required frequency change only once per year at the instruction of DoD. Such demonstrations shall occur during off-peak hours, as determined by the NVNG licensee, unless otherwise agreed by the NVNG licensee and DoD. Such NVNG licensee will coordinate with DoD in establishing a plan for such a demonstration. In the event that a NVNG licensee fails to demonstrate to DoD that it is capable of implementing a DoD required frequency change in accordance with a demonstration plan established by DoD and the NVNG licensee, upon the Commission's receipt of a written notification from NTIA describing such failure, the Commission shall impose additional conditions or requirements on the NVNG licensee's authorization as may be necessary to protect DoD operations in the 400.15-401 MHz downlink band until the Commission is notified by NTIA that the NVNG licensee has successfully demonstrated its ability to implement a DoD required frequency change. Such additional conditions or requirements may include, but are not limited to, requiring such NVNG licensee immediately to terminate its operations interfering with the DoD system.

