(a) Each space station licensee in the Fixed-Satellite Service shall establish a satellite network control center which will have the responsibility to monitor space-to-Earth transmissions in its system. This would indirectly monitor uplink earth station transmissions in its system and to coordinate transmissions in its satellite system with those of other systems to prevent harmful interference incidents or, in the event of a harmful interference incident, to identify the source of the interference and correct the problem promptly.

(b) Each space station licensee shall maintain on file with the Commission and with its Columbia Operations Center in Columbia, Maryland, a current listing of the names, titles, addresses and telephone numbers of the points of contact for resolution of interference problems. Contact personnel should include those responsible for resolution of short term, immediate interference problems at the system control center, and those responsible for long term engineering and technical design issues.

(c) The transmitting earth station licensee shall provide the operator(s) of the satellites, on which the licensee is authorized to transmit, contact telephone numbers for the control center of the earth station and emergency telephone numbers for key personnel; a current file of these contacts shall be maintained at each satellite system control center.

(d) An earth station licensee shall ensure that each of its authorized earth stations complies with the following:

(1) The earth station licensee shall ensure that there is continuously available means of communications between the satellite network control center and the earth station operator or its remote control point as designated by the licensee.

(2) The earth station operator shall notify the satellite network control center and receive permission from the control center before transmitting to the satellite or changing the basic characteristics of a transmission.

(3) The earth station operator shall keep the space station licensee informed of all actual and planned usage.

(4) Upon approval of the satellite network control center, the earth station operator may radiate an RF carrier into the designated transponder. Should improper illumination of the transponder or undue adjacent transponder interference be observed by the satellite network control center, the earth station operator shall immediately take whatever measures are needed to eliminate the problem.

(5) The space station licensee may delegate the responsibility and duties of the satellite network control center to a technically qualified user or group of users, but the space station licensee shall remain ultimately responsible for the performance of those duties.

