(a) Definitions.

(1) Allocated bandwidth. The term “allocated bandwidth” refers to the entry in the Table of Frequency Allocations of a given frequency band for the purpose of its use by one or more terrestrial or space radiocommunication services under specified conditions. This term shall be applied to the 2310-2360 MHz band for satellite DARS.

(2) Frequency Assignment. The term “frequency assignment” refers to the authorization given by the Commission for a radio station to use a radio frequency or radio frequency channel under specified conditions. This term shall be applied to the two frequency bands (A) 2320.0-2332.5 MHz and (B) 2332.5-2340.0 MHz for satellite DARS.

(b) Each system authorized under this section will be conditioned upon construction, launch and operation milestones as outlined in § 25.144(b). The failure to meet any of the milestones contained in an authorization will result in its cancellation, unless such failure is due to circumstances beyond the licensee's control or unless otherwise determined by the Commission upon proper showing by the licensee in any particular case.

(c) Frequency assignments will be made for each satellite DARS system as follows:

(1) Exclusive satellite DARS licenses are limited to the 2320-2345 MHz band segment of the allocated bandwidth for satellite DARS;

(2) Two, 12.5 MHz frequency assignments are available for satellite DARS: 2320.0-2332.5 MHz and 2332.5-2345.0 MHz;

(3) Satellite DARS licensees may reduce their assigned bandwidth occupancy to provide telemetry beacons in their exclusive frequency assignments;

(4) Each licensee may employ cross polarization within its exclusive frequency assignment and/or may employ cross polarized transmissions in frequency assignments of other satellite DARS licensees under mutual agreement with those licensees. Licensees who come to mutual agreement to use cross-polarized transmissions shall apply to the Commission for approval of the agreement before coordination is initiated with other administrations by the licensee of the exclusive frequency assignment; and

(5) Feeder uplink networks are permitted in the following Fixed-Satellite Service frequency bands: 7025-7075 MHz and 6725-7025 MHz (101° W.L. orbital location only).

(d) Power limit for SDARS terrestrial repeaters. (1) SDARS terrestrial repeaters must be operated at a power level less than or equal to 12-kW average EIRP, with a maximum peak-to-average power ratio of 13 dB.

(2) SDARS repeaters are permitted to operate at power levels above 12-kW average EIRP, unless a potentially affected WCS licensee provides written notice that it intends to commence commercial service within the following 365 days. Starting 180 days after receipt of such written notice, SDARS repeaters within the area notified by the potentially affected WCS licensee must be operated at a power level less than or equal to 12-kW average EIRP, with a maximum peak-to-average power ratio of 13 dB.

(3) For the purpose of this section, a WCS licensee is potentially affected if it meets any of the following criteria:

(i) The WCS licensee is authorized to operate a base station in the 2305-2315 MHz or 2350-2360 MHz bands in the same Major Economic Area (MEA) as that in which a SDARS terrestrial repeater is located.

(ii) The WCS licensee is authorized to operate a base station in the 2315-2320 MHz or 2345-2350 MHz bands in the same Regional Economic Area Grouping (REAG) as that in which a SDARS terrestrial repeater is located.

(iii) An SDARS terrestrial repeater is located within 5 kilometers of the boundary of an MEA or REAG in which the WCS licensee is authorized to operate a WCS base station.

