(a) Except as otherwise provided by this part, criteria for unacceptable levels of interference caused by other satellite networks shall be established on the basis of nominal operating conditions and with the objective of minimizing orbital separations between satellites.

(b) Emissions with an occupied bandwidth of less than 2 MHz are not protected from interference from wider bandwidth transmissions if the r.f. carrier frequency of the narrowband signal is within ±1 MHz of one of the frequencies specified in § 25.211(a).

(c) In the 14.0 through 14.5 GHz band, an earth station with an antenna equivalent diameter of 1.2 meters or greater may be routinely licensed for transmission of narrowband analog services with bandwidths up to 200 kHz if the maximum input power spectral density into the antenna does not exceed −8 dBW/4 kHz and the maximum transmitted satellite carrier EIRP density does not exceed 17 dBW/4 kHz. Such earth stations may be routinely licensed for transmission of narrowband and/or wideband digital services, including digital video services, if the maximum input spectral power density into the antenna does not exceed −14 dBW/4 kHz, and the maximum transmitted satellite carrier EIRP density does not exceed +10.0 dBW/4 kHz. Antennas transmitting in the 14.0 through 14.5 GHz band with a major and/or minor axis smaller than 1.2 meters are subject to the provisions of § 25.220, which may include power reduction requirements.

(d)(1) For earth stations licensed before March 10, 2005 in the 5925-6425 MHz band, an earth station with an equivalent diameter of 4.5 meters or greater may be routinely licensed for transmission of SCPC services if the maximum power densities into the antenna do not exceed +0.5 dBW/4 kHz for analog SCPC carriers with bandwidths up to 200 kHz, and do not exceed −2.7 dBW/4 kHz for narrow and/or wideband digital SCPC carriers.

(2) For earth stations licensed after March 10, 2005 in the 5925-6425 MHz band, an earth station with an equivalent diameter of 4.5 meters or greater may be routinely licensed for transmission of SCPC services if the maximum power densities into the antenna do not exceed +0.5 dBW/4 kHz for analog SCPC carriers with bandwidths up to 200 kHz, and do not exceed −2.7 − 10log(N) dBW/4 kHz for narrow and/or wideband digital SCPC carriers. For digital SCPC using frequency division multiple access (FDMA) or time division multiple access (TDMA) technique, N is equal to one. For digital SCPC using code division multiple access (CDMA) technique, N is the maximum number of co-frequency simultaneously transmitting earth stations in the same satellite receiving beam.

(3) Antennas with an equivalent diameter smaller than 4.5 meters in the 5925-6425 MHz band are subject to the provisions of § 25.220 of this chapter, which may include power reduction requirements.

(e) Each applicant for authorization for transmissions in the fixed-satellite service proposing to use transmitted satellite carrier EIRP densities, and/or maximum antenna input power densities in excess of those specified in paragraph (c) of this section in the 14.0-14.5 GHz band, or in paragraph (d) of this section in the 5925-6425 MHz band, respectively, must comply with the procedures set forth in § 25.220.

(f) In the 24.75-25.25 GHz band, an earth station that meets the antenna gain pattern requirements set forth in §§ 25.209(a) and (b) of this part may be routinely licensed if the maximum power density into the antenna does not exceed 3.5 dBW/MHz.

