(a) A non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service system licensee (“NVNG licensee”) time-sharing spectrum in the 137-138 MHz frequency band shall not transmit signals into the “protection areas” of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (“NOAA”) satellite systems. When calculating the protection areas for a NOAA satellite in the 137.333-137.367 MHz, 137.485-137.515 MHz, 137.605-137.635 MHz and 137.753-137.787 MHz bands, a NVNG licensee shall use an earth station elevation angle of five degrees towards the NOAA satellite and will cease its transmissions prior to the NVNG licensee's service area, based on an elevation angle of zero degrees towards the NVNG licensee's satellite, overlapping the NOAA protection area. When calculating the protection areas for a NOAA satellite in the 137.025-137.175 MHz and 137.825-138 MHz bands, a NVNG licensee shall use an earth station elevation angle of zero degrees, or less if reasonably necessary, towards the NOAA satellite and will cease its transmissions prior to the NVNG licensee's service area, based on an elevation angle of zero degrees towards the NVNG licensee's satellite, overlapping the NOAA protection area. A NVNG licensee is responsible for obtaining the necessary ephemeris data. This information shall be updated system-wide on at least a weekly basis. A NVNG licensee shall use an orbital propagator algorithm with an accuracy equal to or greater than the NORAD propagator used by NOAA.

(b) A NVNG licensee time sharing spectrum in the 137-138 MHz band shall establish a 24-hour per day contact person and telephone number so that claims of harmful interference into NOAA earth station users and other operational issues can be reported and resolved expeditiously. This contact information shall be made available to NOAA or its designee. If the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (“NTIA”) notifies the Commission that NOAA is receiving unacceptable interference from a NVNG licensee, the Commission will require such NVNG licensee to terminate its interfering operations immediately unless it demonstrates to the Commission's reasonable satisfaction, and that of NTIA, that it is not responsible for causing harmful interference into the worldwide NOAA system. A NVNG licensee assumes the risk of any liability or damage that it and its directors, officers, employees, affiliates, agents and subcontractors may incur or suffer in connection with an interruption of its non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service, in whole or in part, arising from or relating to its compliance or noncompliance with the requirements of this paragraph (b). The Commission will not hesitate to impose sanctions on a NVNG licensee time-sharing spectrum in the 137-138 MHz band with NOAA, including monetary forfeitures and license revocations, when appropriate.

(c) Each satellite in a NVNG licensee's system time-sharing spectrum with NOAA in the 137-138 MHz band shall automatically turn off and cease satellite transmissions if, after 72 consecutive hours, no reset signal is received from the NVNG licensee's gateway earth station and verified by the satellite. All satellites in such NVNG licensee's system shall be capable of instantaneous shutdown on any sub-band upon command from such NVNG licensee's gateway earth station.

