(a) The e.i.r.p. density of emissions from mobile earth stations placed in service on or before July 21, 2002 with assigned uplink frequencies between 1610 MHz and 1660.5 MHz shall not exceed −70 dBW/MHz, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval, in the band 1559-1587.42 MHz. The e.i.r.p. of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth generated by such stations shall not exceed −80 dBW, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval, in that band.

(b) The e.i.r.p. density of emissions from mobile earth stations placed in service on or before July 21, 2002 with assigned uplink frequencies between 1610 MHz and 1626.5 MHz shall not exceed −64 dBW/MHz, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval, in the band 1587.42-1605 MHz. The e.i.r.p. of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth generated by such stations shall not exceed −74 dBW, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval, in the 1587.42-1605 MHz band.

(c) The e.i.r.p. density of emissions from mobile earth stations placed in service after July 21, 2002 with assigned uplink frequencies between 1610 MHz and 1660.5 MHz shall not exceed −70 dBW/MHz, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval, in the band 1559-1605 MHz. The e.i.r.p. of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth from such stations shall not exceed −80 dBW, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval, in the 1559-1605 MHz band.

(d) As of January 1, 2005, the e.i.r.p. density of emissions from mobile earth stations placed in service on or before July 21, 2002 with assigned uplink frequencies between 1610 MHz and 1660.5 MHz (except Standard A and B Inmarsat terminals used as Global Maritime Distress and Safety System ship earth stations) shall not exceed −70dBW/MHz, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval, in the 1559-1605 MHz band. The e.i.r.p. of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth from such stations shall not exceed −80 dBW, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval, in the 1559-1605 MHz band. Standard A Inmarsat terminals used as Global Maritime Distress and Safety System ship earth stations that do not meet the e.i.r.p. density limits specified in this paragraph may continue operation until December 31, 2007. Inmarsat-B terminals manufactured more than six months after Federal Register publication of the rule changes adopted in FCC 03-283 must meet these limits. Inmarsat B terminals manufactured before then are temporarily grandfathered under the condition that no interference is caused by these terminals to aeronautical satellite radio-navigation systems. The full-compliance deadline for grandfathered Inmarsat-B terminals is December 31, 2012.

(e) The e.i.r.p density of emissions from mobile earth stations with assigned uplink frequencies between 1990 MHz and 2025 MHz shall not exceed −70 dBW/MHz, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval, in frequencies between 1559 MHz and 1610 MHz. The e.i.r.p. of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth from such stations between 1559 MHz and 1605 MHz shall not exceed −80 dBW, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval. The e.i.r.p. of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth from such stations between 1605 MHz and 1610 MHz manufactured more than six months after Federal Register publication of the rule changes adopted in FCC 03-283 shall not exceed −80 dBW, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval.

(f) Mobile earth stations placed in service after July 21, 2002 with assigned uplink frequencies in the 1610-1660.5 MHz band shall suppress the power density of emissions in the 1605-1610 MHz band to an extent determined by linear interpolation from −70 dBW/MHz at 1605 MHz to −10 dBW/MHz at 1610 MHz.

(g) Mobile earth stations manufactured more than six months after Federal Register publication of the rule changes adopted in FCC 03-283 with assigned uplink frequencies in the 1610-1626.5 MHz band shall suppress the power density of emissions in the 1605-1610 MHz band-segment to an extent determined by linear interpolation from −70 dBW/MHz at 1605 MHz to −10 dBW/MHz at 1610 MHz averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval. The e.i.r.p of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth from such stations shall not exceed a level determined by linear interpolation from −80 dBW at 1605 MHz to −20 dBW at 1610 MHz, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval.

(h) Mobile earth stations manufactured more than six months after Federal Register publication of the rule changes adopted in FCC 03-283 with assigned uplink frequencies in the 1626.5-1660.5 MHz band shall suppress the power density of emissions in the 1605-1610 MHz band-segment to an extent determined by linear interpolation from −70 dBW/MHz at 1605 MHz to −46 dBW/MHz at 1610 MHz, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval. The e.i.r.p of discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth from such stations shall not exceed a level determined by linear interpolation from −80 dBW at 1605 MHz to −56 dBW at 1610 MHz, averaged over any 2 millisecond active transmission interval.

(i) The e.i.r.p density of carrier-off state emissions from mobile earth stations manufactured more than six months after Federal Register publication of the rule changes adopted in FCC 03-283 with assigned uplink frequencies between 1 and 3 GHz shall not exceed -80 dBW/MHz in the 1559-1610 MHz band averaged over any two millisecond interval.

(j) A Root-Mean-Square detector shall be used for all power density measurements.

