(a)(1) Frequency band. The following frequencies are available for use by the fixed-satellite service. Precise frequencies and bandwidths of emission shall be assigned on a case-by-case basis. The Table follows:

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The following frequencies are available for use by the non-voice, non-geostationary mobile-satellite service:
              

(4)(i) The following frequencies are available for use by the 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service:
              

(ii) The following frequencies are available for use by the 2 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service: 2000-2020 MHz: User-to-Satellite Link; 2180-2200 MHz: Satellite-to-User Link.

(iii)(A) The following frequencies are available for use by the L-band Mobile-Satellite Service:
              

(B) The use of the frequencies 1544-1545 MHz and 1645.5-1646.5 MHz is limited to distress and safety communications.

(5) The following frequencies are available for use by the inter-satellite service:
              

(6) The following frequencies are available for use by the Satellite Digital Audio Radio Service (SDARS), and for any associated terrestrial repeaters: 2320-2345 MHz (space-to-Earth)
              

(7) The following frequencies are available for use by the Direct Broadcast Satellite service:
              

(8) The following frequencies are available for use by ESVs:
              

ESVs shall be authorized and coordinated as set forth in §§ 25.221 and 25.222. ESV operators, collectively, may coordinate up to 180 megahertz of spectrum in the 5925-6425 MHz (Earth-to-space) band for all ESV operations at any given location subject to coordination.

(9) The following frequencies are available for use by the Broadcasting-Satellite Service after 1 April 2007:
              

(10)(i) The following frequencies are available for use by Vehicle-Mounted Earth Stations (VMESs):

10.95-11.2GHz (space-to-Earth)

11.45-11.7GHz (space-to-Earth)

11.7-12.2GHz (space-to-Earth)

14.0-14.5GHz (Earth-to-space)

(ii) VMESs shall be authorized as set forth in § 25.226.

(b) Other frequencies and associated bandwidths of emission may be assigned on a case-by-case basis to space systems under this part in conformance with § 2.106 of this chapter and the Commission's rules and policies.

(c) Orbital locations assigned to space stations licensed under this part by the commission are subject to change by summary order of the Commission on 30 days notice. An authorization to construct and/or to launch a space station becomes null and void if the construction is not begun or is not completed, or if the space station is not launched and positioned at its assigned orbital location and operations commenced in accordance with the station authorization, by the respective date(s) specified in the authorization. Frequencies and orbital location assignments are subject to the policies set forth in the Report and Order, FCC 83-184, adopted April 27, 1983 in CC Docket No. 81-704 and the Report and Order, adopted July 25, 1985 in CC Docket No. 84-1299 as modified by the Report and Order, adopted January 19, 1996 in IB Docket No. 95-41.

(d) Frequency tolerance, Earth stations. The carrier frequency of each earth station transmitter authorized in these services shall be maintained within 0.001 percent of the reference frequency.

(e) Frequency tolerance, space stations. The carrier frequency of each space station transmitter authorized in these services shall be maintained within 0.002 percent of the reference frequency.

(f) Emission limitations. Except for SDARS terrestrial repeaters, the mean power of emissions shall be attenuated below the mean output power of the transmitter in accordance with the schedule set forth in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(4) of this section. The out-of-band emissions of SDARS terrestrial repeaters shall be attenuated in accordance with the schedule set forth in paragraph (h) of this section.

(1) In any 4 kHz band, the center frequency of which is removed from the assigned frequency by more than 50 percent up to and including 100 percent of the authorized bandwidth: 25 dB;

(2) In any 4 kHz band, the center frequency of which is removed from the assigned frequency by more than 100 percent up to and including 250 percent of the authorized bandwidth: 35 dB;

(3) In any 4 kHz band, the center frequency of which is removed from the assigned frequency by more than 250 percent of the authorized bandwidth: An amount equal to 43 dB plus 10 times the logarithm (to the base 10) of the transmitter power in watts;

(4) In any event, when an emission outside of the authorized bandwidth causes harmful interference, the Commission may, at its discretion, require greater attenuation than specified in paragraphs (f) (1), (2) and (3) of this section.

(g) Telemetry, tracking and telecommand functions for U.S. domestic satellites shall be conducted at either or both edges of the allocated band(s). Frequencies, polarization and coding shall be selected to minimize interference into other satellite networks and within their own satellite system.

(h) Out-of-band emission limitations for SDARS terrestrial repeaters. (1) Any SDARS terrestrial repeater operating at a power level greater than 2-watt average EIRP is required to attenuate its out-of-band emissions below the transmitter power P by a factor of not less than 90 + 10 log (P) dB in a 1-megahertz bandwidth outside the 2320-2345 MHz band, where P is average transmitter output power in watts.

(2) Any SDARS terrestrial repeater operating at a power level equal to or less than 2-watt average EIRP is required to attenuate its out-of-band emissions below the transmitter power P by a factor of not less than 75 + 10 log (P) dB in a 1-megahertz bandwidth outside the 2320-2345 MHz band, where P is average transmitter output power in watts.

(3) SDARS repeaters are permitted to attenuate out-of-band emissions less than the levels specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2), of this section unless a potentially affected WCS licensee provides written notice that it intends to commence commercial service within the following 365 days. Starting 180 days after receipt of such written notice, SDARS repeaters within the area notified by the potentially affected WCS licensee must attenuate out-of-band emissions to the levels specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section.

(4) For the purpose of this section, a WCS licensee is potentially affected if it meets any of the following criteria:

(i) The WCS licensee is authorized to operate a base station in the 2305-2315 MHz or 2350-2360 MHz bands in the same Major Economic Area (MEA) as that in which a SDARS terrestrial repeater is located.

(ii) The WCS licensee is authorized to operate a base station in the 2315-2320 MHz or 2345-2350 MHz bands in the same Regional Economic Area Grouping (REAG) as that in which a SDARS terrestrial repeater is located.

(iii) A SDARS terrestrial repeater is located within 5 kilometers of the boundary of an MEA or REAG in which the WCS licensee is authorized to operate a WCS base station.

