(a) Downlink analog video transmissions in the band 3700-4200 MHz shall be transmitted only on a center frequency of 3700+20N MHz, where N=1 to 24. The corresponding uplink frequency shall be 2225 MHz higher.

(b) All 4/6 GHz analog video transmissions shall contain an energy dispersal signal at all times with a minimum peak-to-peak bandwidth set at whatever value is necessary to meet the power flux density limits specified in § 25.208(a) and successfully coordinated internationally and accepted by adjacent U.S. satellite operators based on the use of state of the art space and earth station facilities. Further, all transmissions operating in frequency bands described in § 25.208 (b) and (c) shall also contain an energy dispersal signal at all times with a minimum peak-to-peak bandwidth set at whatever value is necessary to meet the power flux density limits specified in § 25.208(b) and (c) and successfully coordinated internationally and accepted by adjacent U.S. satellite operators based on the use of state of the art space and earth station facilities. The transmission of an unmodulated carrier at a power level sufficient to saturate a transponder is prohibited, except by the space station licensee to determine transponder performance characteristics. All 12/14 GHz video transmissions for TV/FM shall identify the particular carrier frequencies for necessary coordination with adjacent U.S. satellite systems and affected satellite systems of other administrations.

(c) All initial analog video transmissions shall be preceded by a video test transmission at an uplink e.i.r.p. at least 10 dB below the normal operating level. The earth station operator shall not increase power until receiving notification from the satellite network control center that the frequency and polarization alignment are satisfactory pursuant to the procedures specified in § 25.272. The stationary earth station operator that has successfully transmitted an initial video test signal to a satellite pursuant to this paragraph is not required to make subsequent video test transmissions if subsequent transmissions are conducted using exactly the same parameters as the initial transmission.

(d) An earth station may be routinely licensed for transmission of full transponder video analog services provided:

(1) In the 5925-6425 MHz band, with an antenna equivalent diameter 4.5 meters or greater, the maximum input power into the antenna does not exceed 26.5 dBW; or

(2) In the 14.0-14.5 GHz band, with an antenna equivalent diameter of 1.2 meters or greater, the maximum input power into the antenna does not exceed 27 dBW.

(e) Antennas smaller than those specified in paragraph (d) of this section are subject to the provisions of § 25.220, which may include power reduction requirements. These antennas will not be routinely licensed for transmission of full transponder services.

(f) Each applicant for authorization for analog transmissions in the fixed-satellite service proposing to use maximum power into the antenna in excess of those specified in § 25.211(d), must comply with the procedures set forth in § 25.220.

