All satellite uplink transmissions carrying broadband video information shall be identified through the use of an automatic transmitter identification system as specified below.

(a) Effective March 1, 1991, all satellite video uplink facilities shall be equipped with an ATIS encoder meeting the specifications set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) All video uplink facilities utilizing a transmitter manufactured on or after March 1, 1991 shall be equipped with an ATIS encoder meeting the performance specifications set forth in paragraph (d) of this section and the encoder shall be integrated into the uplink transmitter chain in a method that cannot easily be defeated.

(c) The ATIS signal shall be a separate subcarrier which is automatically activated whenever any RF emissions occur. The ATIS information shall continuously repeat.

(d) The ATIS signal shall consist of the following:

(1) A subcarrier signal generated at a frequency of 7.1 MHz ±25 KHz and injected at a level no less than −26 dB (referenced to the unmodulated carrier). The subcarrier deviation shall not exceed 25 kHz peak deviation.

(2) The protocol shall be International Morse Code keyed by a 1200 Hz ±800 Hz tone representing a mark and a message rate of 15 to 25 words per minute. The tone shall frequency modulate the subcarrier signal.

(3) The ATIS signal as a minimum shall consist of the following:

(i) The FCC assigned earth station call sign;

(ii) A telephone number providing immediate access to personnel capable of resolving ongoing interference or coordination problems with the station;

(iii) A unique ten digit serial number of random number code programmed into the ATIS device in a permanent manner such that it cannot be readily changed by the operator on duty;

(iv) Additional information may be included within the ATIS data stream provided the total message length, including ATIS, does not exceed 30 seconds.

