(a) In bands shared coequally with terrestrial radio communication services, the equivalent isotropically radiated power transmitted in any direction towards the horizon by an earth station, other than an ESV, operating in frequency bands between 1 and 15 GHz, shall not exceed the following limits except as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section:
              

(b) In bands shared coequally with terrestrial radiocommunication services, the equivalent isotropically radiated power transmitted in any direction towards the horizon by an earth station operating in frequency bands above 15 GHz shall not exceed the following limits except as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section:
              

(c) For angles of elevation of the horizon greater than 5° there shall be no restriction as to the equivalent isotropically radiated power transmitted by an earth station towards the horizon.

(d) Notwithstanding the e.i.r.p. and e.i.r.p. density limits specified in the station authorization, each earth station transmission shall be conducted at the lowest power level that will provide the required signal quality as indicated in the application and further amended by coordination agreements.

(e) For operations at frequencies above 10 GHz, earth station operators may exceed the uplink e.i.r.p. and e.i.r.p. density limits specified in the station authorization under the conditions of uplink fading due to precipitation by an amount not to exceed 1 dB above the actual amount of monitored excess attenuation over clear sky propagation conditions. The e.i.r.p. levels shall be returned to normal as soon as the attenuating weather pattern subsides. The maximum power level for power control purposes shall be coordinated between and among adjacent satellite operators.

(f) In the band 13.75-14 GHz, an earth station in the fixed-satellite service shall have a minimum antenna diameter of 4.5 m and the e.i.r.p. of any emission should be at least 68 dBW and should not exceed 85 dBW. The e.i.r.p. density of emissions from any earth station in the FSS operating with a space station in geostationary-satellite orbit shall not exceed 71 dBW in any 6 MHz band from 13.77 to 13.78 GHz. The e.i.r.p. density of emissions from any earth station in the FSS operating with a space station in non-geostationary-satellite orbit shall not exceed 51 dBW in any 6 MHz band from 13.77 to 13.78 GHz. Automatic power control may be used to increase the e.i.r.p. density in the 6 MHz band in this frequency range to compensate for rain attenuation, to the extent that the power flux-density at the FSS space station does not exceed the value resulting from use by an earth station of an e.i.r.p. of 71 dBW or 51 dBW, as appropriate, in the 6 MHz band in clear-sky conditions.

(g) All earth stations in the Fixed Satellite Service in the 20/30 GHz band, and feeder link earth stations operating in the 24.75-25.25 GHz band (Earth-to-space) and providing service to geostationary satellites in the 17/24 GHz BSS, shall employ uplink adaptive power control or other methods of fade compensation such that the earth station transmissions shall be conducted at the power level required to meet the desired link performance while reducing the level of mutual interference between networks.

(h) ESV transmissions in the 5925-6425 MHz (Earth-to-space) band shall not exceed an e.i.r.p. spectral density towards the radio-horizon of 17 dBW/MHz, and shall not exceed an e.i.r.p. towards the radio-horizon of 20.8 dBW. The ESV network shall shut-off the ESV transmitter if the e.i.r.p. spectral density towards the radio-horizon or e.i.r.p. towards the radio-horizon are exceeded.

(i) Within 125 km of the TDRSS sites identified in § 25.222(d), ESV transmissions in the 14.0-14.2 GHz (Earth-to-space) band shall not exceed an e.i.r.p. spectral density towards the horizon of 12.5 dBW/MHz, and shall not exceed an e.i.r.p. towards the horizon of 16.3 dBW.

(j) Within 125 km of the Tracking and Data Relay System Satellite (TDRSS) sites identified in § 25.226(c), VMES transmissions in the 14.0-14.2 GHz (Earth-to-space) band shall not exceed an EIRP spectral density towards the horizon of 12.5 dBW/MHz, and shall not exceed an EIRP towards the horizon of 16.3 dBW.

