(a) Self-transitions. EBS licensees that self-transition may seek reimbursement for their costs to replace eligible downconverters (see ยง 27.1233(a)) and to migrate video programming and data transmission tracks (see ยง 27.1233(b)) from BRS licensees and lessees, EBS lessees, and commercial EBS licensees in the BTA where the center point of the EBS licensee's GSA is located. In addition, BRS licensees and lessees, EBS lessees, and commercial EBS licensees in the LBS or UBS must reimburse the self-transitioning EBS licensee a pro rata share of the eligible costs of transitioning EBS licensees, based on the formula in paragraph (c) of this section. Eligible costs are listed in ยง 27.1238.

(b) Proponent-driven transitions. BRS licensees and lessees, entities that lease EBS spectrum for a commercial purpose, and commercial EBS licensees must pay their own transition costs. In addition, except for MVPD operators that opt-out of the transition, BRS licensees and lessees, EBS lessees, and commercial EBS licensees in the LBS or UBS must reimburse the proponent a pro rata share of the eligible costs of transitioning EBS licensees, based on the formula in paragraph (c) of this section. Eligible costs are listed in ยง 27.1238.

(c) Formula. The pro rata share shall be based on the following formula:

(1) R equals the pro rata share;

(2) L equals the amount of spectrum used by a BRS licensee or lessee or commercial EBS licensee or lessee to provide a commercial service, either directly or through a lease agreement with an EBS or BRS licensee;

(3) T equals the total amount of spectrum licensed or leased for commercial purposes in the BTA;

(4) LP equals the population of the geographic service area or BTA served by the BRS licensee or lessee or commercial EBS licensee or lessee based on the data in the 2000 United States Census; and

(5) TP equals the population of the BTA based on the data in the 2000 United States Census.

