An AWS relocator who relocates an interfering microwave link, i.e., one that is in all or part of its market area and in all or part of its frequency band or a voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent, is entitled to pro rata reimbursement based on the following formula:
                

(a) R
                  N equals the amount of reimbursement.

(b) C equals the actual cost of relocating the link(s). Actual relocation costs include, but are not limited to, such items as: Radio terminal equipment (TX and/or RX—antenna, necessary feed lines, MUX/Modems); towers and/or modifications; back-up power equipment; monitoring or control equipment; engineering costs (design/path survey); installation; systems testing; FCC filing costs; site acquisition and civil works; zoning costs; training; disposal of old equipment; test equipment (vendor required); spare equipment; project management; prior coordination notification under § 101.103(d) of this chapter; site lease renegotiation; required antenna upgrades for interference control; power plant upgrade (if required); electrical grounding systems; Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) (if required); alternate transport equipment; and leased facilities. Increased recurring costs represent part of the actual cost of relocation and, even if the compensation to the incumbent is in the form of a commitment to pay five years of charges, the AWS or MSS/ATC relocator is entitled to seek immediate reimbursement of the lump sum amount based on present value using current interest rates, provided it has entered into a legally binding agreement to pay the charges. C also includes voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent's independent third party appraisal of its compensable relocation costs and incumbent transaction expenses that are directly attributable to the relocation, subject to a cap of two percent of the “hard” costs involved. Hard costs are defined as the actual costs associated with providing a replacement system, such as equipment and engineering expenses. C may not exceed $250,000 per paired link, with an additional $150,000 permitted if a new or modified tower is required.

(c) N equals the number of AWS and MSS/ATC entities that have triggered a cost-sharing obligation. For the AWS relocator, N=1. For the next AWS entity triggering a cost-sharing obligation, N=2, and so on. In the case of a voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent, N=1 for the first AWS entity triggering a cost-sharing obligation. For the next AWS or MSS/ATC entity triggering a cost-sharing obligation, N=2, and so on.

(d) T
                  m equals the number of months that have elapsed between the month the AWS or MSS/ATC relocator or voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent obtains reimbursement rights for the link and the month in which an AWS entity triggers a cost-sharing obligation. An AWS or MSS/ATC relocator obtains reimbursement rights for the link on the date that it signs a relocation agreement with a microwave incumbent. A voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent obtains reimbursement rights for the link on the date that the incumbent notifies the Commission that it intends to discontinue, or has discontinued, the use of the link, pursuant to § 101.305 of the Commission's rules.

