(a) An applicant must file a single application for an initial authorization for all markets won and frequency blocks desired. Initial authorizations shall be granted in accordance with § 27.5. Applications for individual sites are not required and will not be accepted, except where required for environmental assessments, in accordance with §§ 1.1301 through 1.1319 of this chapter.

(b) 2305-2320 MHz and 2345-2360 MHz bands. Initial authorizations for the 2305-2320 MHz and 2345-2360 MHz bands shall be for 10 megahertz of spectrum in accordance with § 27.5(a).

(1) Authorizations for Blocks A and B will be based on Major Economic Areas (MEAs), as specified in § 27.6(a)(1).

(2) Authorizations for Blocks C and D will be based on Regional Economic Area Groupings (REAGs), as specified in § 27.6(a)(2).

(c) 746-763 MHz, 775-793 MHz, and 805-806 MHz bands. Initial authorizations for the 746-763 MHz, 775-793 MHz, and 805-806 MHz bands shall be for paired channels of 1, 5, 6, or 11 megahertz of spectrum in accordance with § 27.5(b).

(1) Authorizations for Block A, consisting of two paired channels of 1 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(b)(1).

(2) Authorizations for Block B, consisting of two paired channels of 1 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(b)(1).

(3) Authorizations for Block C, consisting of two paired channels of 11 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(b)(2). In the event that no licenses granting authorizations for Block C, consisting of two paired channels of 11 megahertz each, are assigned based on the results of the first auction in which such licenses are offered because the auction results do not satisfy the applicable reserve price, then the authorizations for the spectrum in the 746-757 MHz and 776-787 MHz bands will instead be as follows:

(i) Authorizations for Block C1, consisting of two paired channels of 6 megahertz each in the 746-752 MHz and 776-782 MHz bands, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(b)(2)(i).

(ii) Authorizations for Block C2, consisting of two paired channels of 5 megahertz each in the 752-757 MHz and 782-787 MHz bands, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(b)(2)(ii).

(4) The authorization for Block D, consisting of two paired channels of 5 megahertz each, will be based on the geographic area specified in § 27.6(b)(3).

(d) 698-746 MHz band. Initial authorizations for the 698-746 MHz band shall be for 6 or 12 megahertz of spectrum in accordance with § 27.5(c).

(1) Authorizations for Block A, consisting of two paired channels of 6 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(c)(1).

(2) Authorizations for Block B, consisting of two paired channels of 6 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(c)(2).

(3) Authorizations for Block C, consisting of two paired channels of 6 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(c)(2).

(4) Authorizations for Block D, consisting of an unpaired channel block of 6 megahertz, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(c)(3).

(5) Authorizations for Block E, consisting of an unpaired channel block of 6 megahertz, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(c)(1).

(e) 1390-1392 MHz band. Initial authorizations for the 1390-1392 MHz band shall be for 2 megahertz of spectrum in accordance with § 27.5(d). Authorizations will be based on Major Economic Areas (MEAs), as specified in § 27.6(d).

(f) The paired 1392-1395 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands. Initial authorizations for the paired 1392-1395 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands shall be for 3 megahertz of paired spectrum in accordance with § 27.5(e). Authorization for Blocks A and B will be based on Economic Areas Groupings (EAGs), as specified in § 27.6(e).

(g) 1670-1675 MHz band. Initial authorizations for the 1670-1675 MHz band shall be for 5 megahertz of spectrum in accordance with § 27.5(f). Authorizations will be on a nationwide basis.

(h) [Reserved]

(i) 1710-1755 MHz and 2110-2155 MHz bands. Initial authorizations for the 1710-1755 MHz and 2110-2155 MHz bands shall be for 5 or 10 megahertz of spectrum in each band in accordance with § 27.5(h) of this part.

(1) Authorizations for Block A, consisting of two paired channels of 10 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(h)(1).

(2) Authorizations for Block B, consisting of two paired channels of 10 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(h)(2).

(3) Authorizations for Block C, consisting of two paired channels of 5 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(h)(2).

(4) Authorizations for Blocks D, consisting of two paired channels of 5 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(h)(3).

(5) Authorizations for Blocks E, consisting of two paired channels of 5 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(h)(3).

(6) Authorizations for Block F, consisting of two paired channels of 10 megahertz each, will be based on those geographic areas specified in § 27.6(h)(3).

