(a) Protection of Department of Defense operations in the 1710-1755 MHz band. The Department of Defense (DoD) operates communications systems in the 1710-1755 MHz band at 16 protected facilities, nationwide. AWS licensees must accept any interference received from these facilities and must protect the facilities from interference. AWS licensees shall protect the facilities from interference by restricting the operation of their base and fixed stations from any locations that could potentially permit AWS mobile, fixed, and portable stations transmitting in the 1710-1755 MHz band to cause interference to government operations within the radii of operation of the 16 facilities (the radii of operation of each facility is indicated in the third column of Table 1 immediately following paragraph (a)(3) of this section). In addition, AWS licensees shall be required to coordinate any operations that could permit mobile, fixed, and portable stations to operate in the specified areas of the 16 facilities, as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Protection of these facilities in this manner shall take place under the following conditions:

(1) At the Yuma, Arizona and Cherry Point, North Carolina facilities, all operations shall be protected indefinitely.

(2) At the remaining 14 facilities, airborne and military test range operations shall be protected until such time as these systems are relocated to other spectrum, and precision guided munitions (PGM) operations shall be protected until such time as these systems are relocated to other spectrum or until PGM inventory at each facility is exhausted, whichever occurs first.

(3) AWS licensees whose transmit operations in the 1710-1755 MHz band consist of fixed or mobile operations with nominal transmit EIRP values of 100 mW or less and antenna heights of 1.6 meters above ground or less shall coordinate their services around the 16 sites at the distance specified in row a. of Table 2. AWS licensees whose transmit operations in the 1710-1755 MHz band consist of fixed or mobile operations with nominal transmit EIRP values of 1 W or less and antenna heights of 10 meters above ground or less shall coordinate their services around the 16 sites at the distance specified in row b. of Table 2. These coordination distances shall be measured from the edge of the operational distances indicated in the third column of Table 1, and coordination with each affected DoD facility shall be accomplished through the Commander of the facility.

(b) Protection of non-DoD operations in the 1710-1755 MHz and 1755-1761 MHz bands. Until such time as non-DoD systems operating in the 1710-1755 MHz and 1755-1761 MHz bands are relocated to other spectrum, AWS licensees shall protect such systems by satisfying the appropriate provisions of TIA Telecommunications Systems Bulletin 10-F, “Interference Criteria for Microwave Systems,” May, 1994 (TSB 10-F).

(c) Protection of Federal Government operations below 1710 MHz. AWS licensees operating fixed stations in the 1710-1755 MHz band, if notified that such stations are causing interference to radiosonde receivers operating in the Meteorological Aids Service in the 1675-1700 MHz band or a meteorological-satellite earth receiver operating in the Meteorological-Satellite Service in the 1675-1710 MHz band, shall be required to modify the stations' location and/or technical parameters as necessary to eliminate the interference.

(d) Recognition of NASA Goldstone facility operations in the 2110-2120 MHz band. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) operates the Deep Space Network (DSN) in the 2110-2120 MHz band at Goldstone, California (see Table 3). NASA will continue its operations of high power transmitters (nominal EIRP of 105.5 dBW with EIRP up to 119.5 dBW used under emergency conditions) in this band at this location. AWS licensees must accept any interference received from the Goldstone DSN facility in this band.
                

