Frequencies in the 2110-2150 MHz and 2160-2180 MHz bands listed in § 101.147 of this chapter have been reallocated from Fixed Microwave Services (FMS) to use by AWS (as reflected in § 2.106) of this chapter. In accordance with procedures specified in § 22.602 and §§ 101.69 through 101.82 of this chapter, AWS entities are required to relocate the existing microwave licensees in these bands if interference to the existing microwave licensee would occur. All AWS entities that benefit from the clearance of this spectrum by other AWS entities or by a voluntarily relocating microwave incumbent must contribute to such relocation costs. AWS entities may satisfy their reimbursement requirement by entering into private cost-sharing agreements or agreeing to terms other than those specified in § 27.1164. However, AWS entities are required to reimburse other AWS entities or voluntarily relocating microwave incumbents that incur relocation costs and are not parties to the alternative agreement. In addition, parties to a private cost-sharing agreement may seek reimbursement through the clearinghouse (as discussed in § 27.1162) from AWS entities or other Emerging Technologies (ET) entities, including Mobile Satellite Service (MSS) operators (for Ancillary Terrestrial Component (ATC) base stations), that are not parties to the agreement. The cost-sharing plan is in effect during all phases of microwave relocation specified in §§ 22.602 and 101.69 of this chapter. If an AWS licensee enters into a spectrum leasing arrangement (as set forth in part 1, subpart X of this chapter) and the spectrum lessee triggers a cost-sharing obligation, the licensee is the AWS entity responsible for satisfying the cost-sharing obligations under §§ 27.1160-27.1174.

