The following rules apply concerning the regulatory status in the frequency bands specified in ยง 27.5.

(a) Single authorization. Authorization will be granted to provide any or a combination of the following services in a single license: common carrier, non-common carrier, private internal communications, and broadcast services. A licensee may render any kind of communications service consistent with the regulatory status in its license and with the Commission's rules applicable to that service. An applicant or licensee may submit a petition at any time requesting clarification of the regulatory status for which authorization is required to provide a specific communications service.

(b) Designation of regulatory status in initial application. An applicant shall specify in its initial application if it is requesting authorization to provide common carrier, non-common carrier, private internal communications, or broadcast services, or a combination thereof.

(c) Amendment of pending applications. The following rules apply to amendments of a pending application.

(1) Any pending application may be amended to:

(i) Change the carrier regulatory status requested, or

(ii) Add to the pending request in order to obtain common carrier, non-common carrier, private internal communications, or broadcast services status, or a combination thereof, in a single license.

(2) Amendments to change, or add to, the carrier regulatory status in a pending application are minor amendments filed under ยง 1.927 of this chapter.

(d) Modification of license. The following rules apply to amendments of a license.

(1) A licensee may modify a license to:

(i) Change the regulatory status authorized, or

(ii) Add to the status authorized in order to obtain a combination of services of different regulatory status in a single license.

(2) Applications to change, or add to, the carrier status in a license are modifications not requiring prior Commission authorization. The licensee must notify the Commission within 30 days of the change. If the change results in the discontinuance, reduction, or impairment of an existing service, the licensee is subject to the provisions of ยง 27.66.

