(a) General. CMRS operators are required, prior to commencing operations on fixed or base station transmitters on the 776-787 MHz and 788-793 MHz bands that are located within 500 meters of existing or planned public safety base station receivers, to submit a description of their proposed facility to a Commission-approved public safety coordinator.

(1) The description must include, at a minimum;

(i) The frequency or frequencies on which the facility will operate;

(ii) Antenna location and height;

(iii) Type of emission;

(iv) Effective radiated power;

(v) A description of the area served and the operator's name.

(2) It is the CMRS operator's responsibility to determine whether referral is required for stations constructed in its area of license. Public safety base stations are considered “planned” when public safety operators have notified, or initiated coordination with, a Commission-approved public safety coordinator.

(b) CMRS operators must wait at least 10 business days after submission of the required description before commencing operations on the referenced facility, or implementing modifications to an existing facility.

(c) The potential for harmful interference between the CMRS and public safety facilities will be evaluated by the public safety coordinator.

(1) With regard to existing public safety facilities, the coordinator's determination to disapprove a proposed CMRS facility (or modification) to be located within 500 meters of the public safety facilities will be presumed correct, but the CMRS operator may seek Commission review of such determinations. Pending Commission review, the CMRS operator will not activate the facility or implement proposed modifications.

(2) With regard to proposed public safety facilities, the coordinator's determination to disapprove a proposed CMRS facility (or modification) to be located within 500 meters of the public safety facilities will be presumed correct, but the CMRS operator may seek Commission review and, pending completion of review, operate the facility during construction of the public safety facilities. If coordination or Commission review has not been completed when the public safety facilities are ready to operate, the CMRS operator must cease operations pending completion of coordination or Commission review. Such interim operation of the CMRS facility within the coordination zone (or implementation of modifications) will not be relied on by the Commission in its subsequent review and determination of measures necessary to control interference, including relocation or modification of the CMRS facility.

(d) If, in the event of harmful interference between facilities located within 500 meters proximity, the parties are unable, with the involvement of the coordinator, to resolve the problem by mutually satisfactory arrangements, the Commission may impose restrictions on the operations of any of the parties involved.

