Other FCC rule parts applicable to the Wireless Communications Service include the following:

(a) Part 0. This part describes the Commission's organization and delegations of authority. Part 0 of this chapter also lists available Commission publications, standards and procedures for access to Commission records, and location of Commission Field Offices.

(b) Part 1. This part includes rules of practice and procedure for license applications, adjudicatory proceedings, procedures for reconsideration and review of the Commission's actions; provisions concerning violation notices and forfeiture proceedings; competitive bidding procedures; and the environmental requirements that, together with the procedures specified in ยง 17.4(c) of this chapter, if applicable, must be complied with prior to the initiation of construction. Subpart F includes the rules for the Wireless Telecommunications Services and the procedures for filing electronically via the ULS.

(c) Part 2. This part contains the Table of Frequency Allocations and special requirements in international regulations, recommendations, agreements, and treaties. This part also contains standards and procedures concerning the marketing and importation of radio frequency devices, and for obtaining equipment authorization.

(d) Part 5. This part contains rules prescribing the manner in which parts of the radio frequency spectrum may be made available for experimentation.

(e) Part 15. This part sets forth the requirements and conditions applicable to certain radio frequency devices.

(f) Part 17. This part contains requirements for the construction, marking and lighting of antenna towers, and the environmental notification process that must be completed before filing certain antenna structure registration applications.

(g) Part 20. This part sets forth the requirements and conditions applicable to commercial mobile radio service providers.

(h) Part 22. This part sets forth the requirements and conditions applicable to public mobile services.

(i) Part 24. This part sets forth the requirements and conditions applicable to personal communications services.

(j) Part 25. This part contains the requirements for satellite communications, including satellite DARS.

(k) Part 51. This part contains general duties of telecommunications carriers to provide for interconnection with other telecommunications carriers.

(l) Part 64. This part sets forth the requirements and conditions applicable to telecommunications carriers under the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act.

(m) Part 68. This part contains technical standards for connection of terminal equipment to the telephone network.

(n) Part 73. This part sets forth the requirements and conditions applicable to radio broadcast services.

(o) Part 74. This part sets forth the requirements and conditions applicable to experimental radio, auxiliary, special broadcast and other program distributional services.

(p) Part 90. This part sets forth the requirements and conditions applicable to private land mobile radio services.

(q) Part 101. This part sets forth the requirements and conditions applicable to fixed microwave services.

