
                700 MHz Public/Private Partnership. The public/private partnership established for the development and operation of a nationwide, shared interoperable wireless broadband network operating on the 758-763 MHz and 788-793 MHz bands and the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands in accordance with the Commission's rules.


                Advanced wireless service (AWS). A radiocommunication service licensed pursuant to this part for the frequency bands specified in § 27.5(h).


                Affiliate. This term shall have the same meaning as that for “affiliate” in part 1, § 1.2110(b)(5) of this chapter.


                Assigned frequency. The center of the frequency band assigned to a station.


                Attended operation. Operation of a station by a designated person on duty at the place where the transmitting apparatus is located with the transmitter in the person's plain view.


                Authorized bandwidth. The maximum width of the band of frequencies permitted to be used by a station. This is normally considered to be the necessary or occupied bandwidth, whichever is greater.


                Average terrain. The average elevation of terrain between 3 and 16 kilometers from the antenna site.


                Base station. A land station in the land mobile service.


                Booster service area. A geographic area to be designated by an applicant for a booster station, within which the booster station shall be entitled to protection against interference as set forth in this part. The booster service area must be specified by the applicant so as not to overlap the booster service area of any other booster authorized to or proposed by the applicant. However, a booster station may provide service to receive sites outside of its booster service area, at the licensee's risk of interference. The booster station must be capable of providing substantial service within the designated booster service area.


                Broadband Radio Service (BRS). A radio service using certain frequencies in the 2150-2162 and 2496-2690 MHz bands which can be used to provide fixed and mobile services, except for aeronautical services.


                Broadcast services. This term shall have the same meaning as that for “broadcasting” in section 3(6) of the Communications Act of 1934, i.e., “the dissemination of radio communications intended to be received by the public, directly or by the intermediary of relay stations.” 47 U.S.C. 153(6).


                Commercial EBS licensee. A licensee authorized to operate on EBS channels pursuant to the provisions of § 27.1201(c) contained in the edition of 47 CFR parts 20 to 39, revised as of October 1, 2005, or §§ 74.990 through 74.992 contained in the edition of 47 CFR parts 70 to 79, revised as of October 1, 2004, of this chapter, and that does not meet the eligibility requirements of § 27.1201(a).


                Documented complaint. A complaint that a party is suffering from non-consensual interference. A documented complaint must contain a certification that the complainant has contacted the operator of the allegedly offending facility and tried to resolve the situation prior to filing. The complaint must then specify the nature of the interference, whether the interference is constant or intermittent, when the interference began and the site(s) most likely to be causing the interference. The complaint should be accompanied by a videotape or other evidence showing the effects of the interference. The complaint must contain a motion for a temporary order to have the interfering station cease transmitting. The complaint must be filed with the Secretary's office and served on the allegedly offending party.


                Educational Broadband Service (EBS). A fixed or mobile service, the licensees of which are educational institutions or non-profit educational organizations, and intended primarily for video, data, or voice transmissions of instructional, cultural, and other types of educational material to one or more receiving locations.


                Effective Radiated Power (ERP) (in a given direction). The product of the power supplied to the antenna and its gain relative to a half-wave dipole in a given direction.


                Equivalent Isotropically Radiated Power (EIRP). The product of the power supplied to the antenna and the antenna gain in a given direction relative to an isotropic antenna.


                Fixed service. A radio communication service between specified fixed points.


                Fixed station. A station in the fixed service.


                Land mobile service. A mobile service between base stations and land mobile stations, or between land mobile stations.


                Land mobile station. A mobile station in the land mobile service capable of surface movement within the geographic limits of a country or continent.


                Land station. A station in the mobile service not intended to be used while in motion.


                Lower Band Segment (LBS). Segment of the BRS/EBS band consisting of channels in the frequencies 2496-2572 MHz.


                Middle Band Segment (MBS). Segment of the BRS/EBS band consisting of channels in the frequencies 2572-2614 MHz.


                Mobile service. A radio communication service between mobile and land stations, or between mobile stations.


                Mobile station. A station in the mobile service intended to be used while in motion or during halts at unspecified points.


                National Geodetic Reference System (NGRS). The name given to all geodetic control data contained in the National Geodetic Survey (NGS) data base. (Source: National Geodetic Survey, U.S. Department of Commerce)


                Network Assets Holder. The Network Assets Holder is a Special Purpose Bankruptcy Remote Entity that is formed to hold the assets of the shared wireless broadband network associated with the 700 MHz Public/Private Partnership, in accordance with the terms of the Network Sharing Agreement, such other agreements as the Commission may require or allow, and the Commission's rules.


                Network Sharing Agreement (NSA). An agreement entered into between the winning bidder, the Upper 700 MHz D Block licensee, the Network Assets Holder, the Operating Company, the Public Safety Broadband Licensee, and any other related entities that the Commission may require or allow regarding the shared wireless broadband network associated with the 700 MHz Public/Private Partnership that will operate on the 758-763 MHz and 788-793 MHz bands and the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands.
              


                Operating Company. The Operating Company is a Special Purpose Bankruptcy Remote Entity that is formed to build and operate the shared wireless broadband network associated with the 700 MHz Public/Private Partnership, in accordance with the terms of the Network Sharing Agreement, such other agreements as the Commission may require or allow, and the Commission's rules.


                Point-to-point Broadband station. A Broadband station that transmits a highly directional signal from a fixed transmitter location to a fixed receive location.


                Portable device. Transmitters designed to be used within 20 centimeters of the body of the user.


                Public Safety Broadband License. The Public Safety Broadband License authorizes public safety broadband services in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands.


                Public Safety Broadband Licensee. The licensee of the Public Safety Broadband License in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands.


                Radiodetermination. The determination of the position, velocity and/or other characteristics of an object, or the obtaining of information relating to these parameters, by means of the propagation properties of radio waves.


                Radiolocation. Radiodetermination used for purposes other than those of radionavigation.


                Radiolocation land station. A station in the radiolocation service not intended to be used while in motion.


                Radiolocation mobile station. A station intended to be used while in motion or during halts at unspecified points.


                Radionavigation. Radiodetermination used for the purpose of navigation, including obstruction warning.


                Remote control. Operation of a station by a designated person at a control position from which the transmitter is not visible but where suitable control and telemetering circuits are provided which allow the performance of the essential functions that could be performed at the transmitter.


                Satellite Digital Audio Radio Service (satellite DARS). A radiocommunication service in which compact disc quality programming is digitally transmitted by one or more space stations.


                Sectorization. The use of an antenna system at any broadband station, booster station and/or response station hub that is capable of simultaneously transmitting multiple signals over the same frequencies to different portions of the service area and/or simultaneously receiving multiple signals over the same frequencies from different portions of the service area.


                Shared Wireless Broadband Network. Wireless broadband network associated with the 700 MHz Band Public/Private Partnership that operates on the 758-763 MHz and 788-793 MHz bands and the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands pursuant to the terms of the Network Sharing Agreement, such other agreements as the Commission may require or allow, and the Commission's rules.


                Special Purpose Bankruptcy Remote Entity. A “special purpose entity” is a legal entity created for a special limited purpose, in this context primarily to hold the Upper 700 MHz D Block license or the network assets, or to conduct the construction or operation of the shared wireless broadband network associated with the 700 MHz Public/Private Partnership. A special purpose entity is “bankruptcy remote” if that entity is unlikely to become insolvent as a result of its own activities, is adequately insulated from the consequences of a related party's insolvency, and contains certain characteristics which enhance the likelihood that it will not become the subject of an insolvency proceeding.


                Studio to transmitter link (STL). A directional path used to transmit a signal from a station's studio to its transmitter.


                Temporary fixed broadband station. A broadband station used for the transmission of material from temporary unspecified points to a broadband station.


                Time division multiple access (TDMA). A multiple access technique whereby users share a transmission medium by being assigned and using (one-at-a-time) for a limited number of time division mulitplexed channels; implies that several transmitters use one channel for sending several bit streams.


                Time division multiplexing (TDM). A multiplexing technique whereby two or more channels are derived from a transmission medium by dividing access to the medium into sequential intervals. Each channel has access to the entire bandwidth of the medium during its interval. This implies that one transmitter uses one channel to send several bit streams of information.


                Unattended operation. Operation of a station by automatic means whereby the transmitter is turned on and off and performs its functions without attention by a designated person.


                Universal Licensing System. The Universal Licensing System (ULS) is the consolidated database, application filing system, and processing system for all Wireless Radio Services. ULS supports electronic filing of all applications and related documents by applicants and licensees in the Wireless Radio Services, and provides public access to licensing information.


                Upper 700 MHz D Block license. The Upper 700 MHz D Block license is the nationwide license associated with the 758-763 MHz and 788-793 MHz bands.


                Upper 700 MHz D Block licensee. The Special Purpose Bankruptcy Remote Entity to which the Upper 700 MHz D Block license must be transferred upon execution of the Network Sharing Agreement. References herein to the rights and obligations of the Upper 700 MHz D Block licensee include the exercise or discharge of such rights or obligations, respectively, by related entities as are provided for in the NSA or otherwise as authorized by the Commission.


                Upper Band Segment (UBS). Segment of the BRS/EBS band consisting of channels in the frequencies 2614-2690 MHz


                Wireless communications service. A radiocommunication service licensed pursuant to this part for the frequency bands specified in § 27.5.

