(a) Field strength limits. For the following bands, the predicted or measured median field strength at any location on the geographical border of a licensee's service area shall not exceed the value specified unless the adjacent affected service area licensee(s) agree(s) to a different field strength. This value applies to both the initially offered service areas and to partitioned service areas.

(1) 2110-2155, 2305-2320 and 2345-2360 MHz bands: 47 dBµV/m.

(2) 698-758 and 775-787 MHz bands: 40 dBµV/m.

(3) The paired 1392-1395 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands and the unpaired 1390-1392 MHz band (1.4 GHz band): 47 dBµV/m.

(4) BRS and EBS: The predicted or measured median field strength at any location on the geographical border of a licensee's service area shall not exceed the value specified unless the adjacent affected service area licensee(s) agree(s) to a different field strength. This value applies to both the initially offered services areas and to partitioned services areas. Licensees may exceed this signal level where there is no affected licensee that is constructed and providing service. Once the affected licensee is providing service, the original licensee will be required to take whatever steps necessary to comply with the applicable power level at its GSA boundary, absent consent from the affected licensee.

(i) Prior to transition, the signal strength at any point along the licensee's GSA boundary does not exceed the greater of that permitted under the licensee's Commission authorizations as of January 10, 2005 or 47 dBµV/m.

(ii) Following transition, for stations in the LBS and UBS, the signal strength at any point along the licensee's GSA boundary must not exceed 47 dBµV/m. This field strength is to be measured at 1.5 meters above the ground over the channel bandwidth (i.e., each 5.5 MHz channel for licensees that hold a full channel block, and for the 5.5 MHz channel for licensees that hold individual channels).

(iii) Following transition, for stations in the MBS, the signal strength at any point along the licensee's GSA boundary must not exceed the greater of −73.0 + 10 log(X/6) dBW/m2, where X is the bandwidth in megahertz of the channel, or for facilities that are substantially similar to the licensee's pre-transition facilities (including modifications that do not alter the fundamental nature or use of the transmissions), the signal strength at such point that resulted from the station's operations immediately prior to the transition, provided that such operations complied with paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section.

(b) Power flux density limit for stations operating in the 698-746 MHz bands. For base and fixed stations operating in the 698-746 MHz band in accordance with the provisions of § 27.50(c)(6), the power flux density that would be produced by such stations through a combination of antenna height and vertical gain pattern must not exceed 3000 microwatts per square meter on the ground over the area extending to 1 km from the base of the antenna mounting structure.

(c) Power flux density limit for stations operating in the 746-757 MHz, 758-763 MHz, 776-787 MHz, and 788-793 MHz bands. For base and fixed stations operating in the 746-757 MHz, 758-763 MHz, 776-787 MHz, and 788-793 MHz bands in accordance with the provisions of § 27.50(b)(6), the power flux density that would be produced by such stations through a combination of antenna height and vertical gain pattern must not exceed 3000 microwatts per square meter on the ground over the area extending to 1 km from the base of the antenna mounting structure.

