(a) The following power limits and related requirements apply to stations transmitting in the 2305-2320 MHz band or the 2345-2360 MHz band.

(1) Base and fixed stations. (i) For base and fixed stations transmitting in the 2305-2315 MHz band or the 2350-2360 MHz band:

(A) The average equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) must not exceed 2,000 watts within any 5 megahertz of authorized bandwidth and must not exceed 400 watts within any 1 megahertz of authorized bandwidth.

(B) The peak-to-average power ratio (PAPR) of the transmitter output power must not exceed 13 dB. The PAPR measurements should be made using either an instrument with complementary cumulative distribution function (CCDF) capabilities to determine that PAPR will not exceed 13 dB for more than 0.1 percent of the time or other Commission approved procedure. The measurement must be performed using a signal corresponding to the highest PAPR expected during periods of continuous transmission.

(ii) For base and fixed stations transmitting in the 2315-2320 MHz band or the 2345-2350 MHz band, the peak EIRP must not exceed 2,000 watts.

(iii) Base stations supporting frequency division duplex (FDD) mobile and portable operations are restricted to transmitting in the 2345-2360 MHz bands.

(2) Fixed customer premises equipment stations. For fixed customer premises equipment (CPE) stations transmitting in the 2305-2320 MHz band or in the 2345-2360 MHz band, the peak EIRP must not exceed 20 watts within any 5 megahertz of authorized bandwidth. Fixed CPE stations transmitting in the 2305-2320 MHz band or in the 2345-2360 MHz band must employ automatic transmit power control when operating so the stations operate with the minimum power necessary for successful communications. The use of outdoor antennas for CPE stations or outdoor CPE station installations operating with 2 watts per 5 megahertz or less average EIRP is prohibited. For WCS CPE using TDD technology, the duty cycle must not exceed 38 percent; for WCS CPE using FDD technology, the duty cycle must not exceed 12.5 percent in the 2315-2320 MHz band, and must not exceed 25 percent in the 2305-2315 MHz band.

(3) Mobile and portable stations. (i) For mobile and portable stations transmitting in the 2305-2317.5 MHz band or the 2347.5-2360 MHz band, the average EIRP must not exceed 250 milliwatts within any 5 megahertz of authorized bandwidth and must not exceed 50 milliwatts within any 1 megahertz of authorized bandwidth. For mobile and portable stations using time division duplex (TDD) technology, the duty cycle must not exceed 38 percent in the 2305-2317.5 MHz and 2347.5-2360 MHz bands. For mobile and portable stations using frequency division duplex (FDD) technology, the duty cycle must not exceed 12.5 percent in the 2315-2317.5 MHz band and must not exceed 25 percent in the 2305-2315 MHz band. Mobile and portable stations using FDD technology are restricted to transmitting in the 2305-2317.5 MHz band. Power averaging shall not include intervals in which the transmitter is off.

(ii) Mobile and portable stations are not permitted to operate in the 2317.5-2320 MHz and 2345-2347.5 MHz bands.

(iii) Automatic transmit power control. Mobile and portable stations transmitting in the 2305-2317.5 MHz band or in the 2347.5-2360 MHz band must employ automatic transmit power control when operating so the stations operate with the minimum power necessary for successful communications.

(iv) Prohibition on external vehicle-mounted antennas. The use of external vehicle-mounted antennas for mobile and portable stations transmitting in the 2305-2317.5 MHz band or the 2347.5-2360 MHz band is prohibited.

(b) The following power and antenna height limits apply to transmitters operating in the 746-763 MHz, 775-793 MHz and 805-806 MHz bands:

(1) Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal in the 757-758 and 775-776 MHz bands must not exceed an effective radiated power (ERP) of 1000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m height above average terrain (HAAT), except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 1000 watts ERP in accordance with Table 1 of this section.

(2) Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal in the 746-757 MHz, 758-763 MHz, 776-787 MHz, and 788-793 MHz bands with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less must not exceed an ERP of 1000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 1000 watts ERP in accordance with Table 1 of this section.

(3) Fixed and base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal in the 746-757 MHz, 758-763 MHz, 776-787 MHz, and 788-793 MHz bands with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less must not exceed an ERP of 2000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 2000 watts ERP in accordance with Table 2 of this section.

(4) Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal in the 746-757 MHz, 758-763 MHz, 776-787 MHz, and 788-793 MHz bands with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz must not exceed an ERP of 1000 watts/MHz and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 1000 watts/MHz ERP accordance with Table 3 of this section.

(5) Fixed and base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal in the 746-757 MHz, 758-763 MHz, 776-787 MHz, and 788-793 MHz bands with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz must not exceed an ERP of 2000 watts/MHz and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 2000 watts/MHz ERP in accordance with Table 4 of this section.

(6) Licensees of fixed or base stations transmitting a signal in the 746-757 MHz, 758-763 MHz, 776-787 MHz, and 788-793 MHz bands at an ERP greater than 1000 watts must comply with the provisions set forth in paragraph (b)(8) of this section and § 27.55(c).

(7) Licensees seeking to operate a fixed or base station located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal in the 746-757 MHz, 758-763 MHz, 776-787 MHz, and 788-793 MHz bands at an ERP greater than 1000 watts must:

(i) coordinate in advance with all licensees authorized to operate in the 698-763 MHz, 775-793, and 805-806 MHz bands within 120 kilometers (75 miles) of the base or fixed station;

(ii) coordinate in advance with all regional planning committees, as identified in § 90.527 of this chapter, with jurisdiction within 120 kilometers (75 miles) of the base or fixed station.

(8) Licensees authorized to transmit in the 746-757 MHz, 758-763 MHz, 776-787 MHz, and 788-793 MHz bands and intending to operate a base or fixed station at a power level permitted under the provisions of paragraph (b)(6) of this section must provide advanced notice of such operation to the Commission and to licensees authorized in their area of operation. Licensees who must be notified are all licensees authorized to operate in the 763-775 MHz and 793-805 MHz bands under part 90 of this chapter within 75 km of the base or fixed station and all regional planning committees, as identified in § 90.527 of this chapter, with jurisdiction within 75 km of the base or fixed station. Notifications must provide the location and operating parameters of the base or fixed station, including the station's ERP, antenna coordinates, antenna height above ground, and vertical antenna pattern, and such notifications must be provided at least 90 days prior to the commencement of station operation.

(9) Control stations and mobile stations transmitting in the 746-757 MHz, 758-763 MHz, 776-793 MHz, and 805-806 MHz bands and fixed stations transmitting in the 787-788 MHz and 805-806 MHz bands are limited to 30 watts ERP.

(10) Portable stations (hand-held devices) transmitting in the 746-757 MHz, 758-763 MHz, 776-793 MHz, and 805-806 MHz bands are limited to 3 watts ERP.

(11) For transmissions in the 757-758, 775-776, 787-788, and 805-806 MHz bands, maximum composite transmit power shall be measured over any interval of continuous transmission using instrumentation calibrated in terms of RMS-equivalent voltage. The measurement results shall be properly adjusted for any instrument limitations, such as detector response times, limited resolution bandwidth capability when compared to the emission bandwidth, etc., so as to obtain a true maximum composite measurement for the emission in question over the full bandwidth of the channel.

(12) For transmissions in the 746-757, 758-763, 776-787, and 788-793 MHz bands, licensees may employ equipment operating in compliance with either the measurement techniques described in paragraph (b)(11) of this section or a Commission-approved average power technique. In both instances, equipment employed must be authorized in accordance with the provisions of § 27.51.

(c) The following power and antenna height requirements apply to stations transmitting in the 698-746 MHz band:

(1) Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less must not exceed an effective radiated power (ERP) of 1000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m height above average terrain (HAAT), except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 1000 watts ERP in accordance with Table 1 of this section;

(2) Fixed and base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less must not exceed an ERP of 2000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 2000 watts ERP in accordance with Table 2 of this section;

(3) Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz must not exceed an ERP of 1000 watts/MHz and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 1000 watts/MHz ERP in accordance with Table 3 of this section;

(4) Fixed and base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz must not exceed an ERP of 2000 watts/MHz and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 2000 watts/MHz ERP in accordance with Table 4 of this section;

(5) Licensees seeking to operate a fixed or base station located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal at an ERP greater than 1000 watts must:

(i) coordinate in advance with all licensees authorized to operate in the 698-763 MHz, 775-793, and 805-806 MHz bands within 120 kilometers (75 miles) of the base or fixed station;

(ii) coordinate in advance with all regional planning committees, as identified in §§ 90.527 of this chapter, with jurisdiction within 120 kilometers (75 miles) of the base or fixed station.

(6) Licensees of fixed or base stations transmitting a signal at an ERP greater than 1000 watts and greater than 1000 watts/MHz must comply with the provisions of paragraph (c)(8) of this section and § 27.55(b), except that licensees of fixed or base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, must comply with the provisions of paragraph (c)(8) of this section and § 27.55(b) only if transmitting a signal at an ERP greater than 2000 watts and greater than 2000 watts/MHz;

(7) A licensee authorized to operate in the 710-716, 716-722, or 740-746 MHz bands, or in any unpaired spectrum blocks within the 698-746 MHz band, may operate a fixed or base station at an ERP up to a total of 50 kW within its authorized, 6 MHz spectrum block if the licensee complies with the provisions of § 27.55(b). The antenna height for such stations is limited only to the extent required to satisfy the requirements of § 27.55(b).

(8) Licensees intending to operate a base or fixed station at a power level permitted under the provisions of paragraph (c)(6) of this section must provide advanced notice of such operation to the Commission and to licensees authorized in their area of operation. Licensees who must be notified are all licensees authorized under this part to operate on an adjacent spectrum block within 75 km of the base or fixed station. Notifications must provide the location and operating parameters of the base or fixed station, including the station's ERP, antenna coordinates, antenna height above ground, and vertical antenna pattern, and such notifications must be provided at least 90 days prior to the commencement of station operation.

(9) Control and mobile stations are limited to 30 watts ERP;

(10) Portable stations (hand-held devices) are limited to 3 watts ERP; and

(11) Licensees may employ equipment operating in compliance with either the measurement techniques described in paragraph (b)(11) of this section or a Commission-approved average power technique. In both instances, equipment employed must be authorized in accordance with the provisions of § 27.51.

(d) The following power and antenna height requirements apply to stations transmitting in the 1710-1755 MHz and 2110-2155 MHz bands:
              

(1) The power of each fixed or base station transmitting in the 2110-2155 MHz band and located in any county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, is limited to:

(A) an equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) of 3280 watts when transmitting with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less;

(B) an EIRP of 3280 watts/MHz when transmitting with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz.

(2) The power of each fixed or base station transmitting in the 2110-2155 MHz band and situated in any geographic location other than that described in paragraph (d)(1) is limited to:

(A) an equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) of 1640 watts when transmitting with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less;

(B) an EIRP of 1640 watts/MHz when transmitting with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz.

(3) A licensee operating a base or fixed station in the 2110-2155 MHz band utilizing a power greater than 1640 watts EIRP and greater than 1640 watts/MHz EIRP must coordinate such operations in advance with all Government and non-Government satellite entities in the 2025-2110 MHz band. Operations with power greater than 1640 watts EIRP and greater than 1640 watts/MHz EIRP must be coordinated in advance with the following licensees authorized to operate within 120 kilometers (75 miles) of the base or fixed station operating in this band: all Broadband Radio Service (BRS) licensees authorized under part 27 in the 2155-2160 MHz band and all advanced wireless services (AWS) licensees authorized to operate on adjacent frequency blocks in the 2110-2155 MHz band.

(4) Fixed, mobile, and portable (hand-held) stations operating in the 1710-1755 MHz band are limited to 1 watt EIRP. Fixed stations operating in this band are limited to a maximum antenna height of 10 meters above ground. Mobile and portable stations operating in this band must employ a means for limiting power to the minimum necessary for successful communications.

(5) Equipment employed must be authorized in accordance with the provisions of § 24.51. Power measurements for transmissions by stations authorized under this section may be made either in accordance with a Commission-approved average power technique or in compliance with paragraph (d)(6) of this section. In measuring transmissions in this band using an average power technique, the peak-to-average ratio (PAR) of the transmission may not exceed 13 dB.

(6) Peak transmit power must be measured over any interval of continuous transmission using instrumentation calibrated in terms of an rms-equivalent voltage. The measurement results shall be properly adjusted for any instrument limitations, such as detector response times, limited resolution bandwidth capability when compared to the emission bandwidth, sensitivity, etc., so as to obtain a true peak measurement for the emission in question over the full bandwidth of the channel.

(e) The following power limits apply to the paired 1392-1395 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands as well as the unpaired 1390-1392 MHz band (1.4 GHz band):

(1) Fixed stations transmitting in the 1390-1392 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands are limited to 2000 watts EIRP peak power. Fixed stations transmitting in the 1392-1395 MHz band are limited to 100 watts EIRP peak power.

(2) Mobile stations transmitting in the 1390-1392 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands are limited to 4 watts EIRP peak power. Mobile stations transmitting in the1392-1395 MHz band are limited to 1 watt EIRP peak power.

(f) The following power limits apply to the 1670-1675 MHz band:

(1) Fixed and base stations are limited to 2000 watts EIRP peak power.

(2) Mobile stations are limited to 4 watts EIRP peak power.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) The following power limits shall apply in the BRS and EBS:

(1) Main, booster and base stations. (i) The maximum EIRP of a main, booster or base station shall not exceed 33 dBW + 10log(X/Y) dBW, where X is the actual channel width in MHz and Y is either 6 MHz if prior to transition or the station is in the MBS following transition or 5.5 MHz if the station is in the LBS and UBS following transition, except as provided in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) If a main or booster station sectorizes or otherwise uses one or more transmitting antennas with a non-omnidirectional horizontal plane radiation pattern, the maximum EIRP in dBW in a given direction shall be determined by the following formula: EIRP = 33 dBW + 10 log(X/Y) dBW + 10 log(360/beamwidth) dBW, where X is the actual channel width in MHz, Y is either (i) 6 MHz if prior to transition or the station is in the MBS following transition or (ii) 5.5 MHz if the station is in the LBS and UBS following transition, and beamwidth is the total horizontal plane beamwidth of the individual transmitting antenna for the station or any sector measured at the half-power points.

(2) Mobile and other user stations. Mobile stations are limited to 2.0 watts EIRP. All user stations are limited to 2.0 watts transmitter output power.

(3) For television transmission, the peak power of the accompanying aural signal must not exceed 10 percent of the peak visual power of the transmitter. The Commission may order a reduction in aural signal power to diminish the potential for harmful interference.

(4) For main, booster and response stations utilizing digital emissions with non-uniform power spectral density (e.g. unfiltered QPSK), the power measured within any 100 kHz resolution bandwidth within the 6 MHz channel occupied by the non-uniform emission cannot exceed the power permitted within any 100 kHz resolution bandwidth within the 6 MHz channel if it were occupied by an emission with uniform power spectral density, i.e., if the maximum permissible power of a station utilizing a perfectly uniform power spectral density across a 6 MHz channel were 2000 watts EIRP, this would result in a maximum permissible power flux density for the station of 2000/60 = 33.3 watts EIRP per 100 kHz bandwidth. If a non-uniform emission were substituted at the station, station power would still be limited to a maximum of 33.3 watts EIRP within any 100 kHz segment of the 6 MHz channel, irrespective of the fact that this would result in a total 6 MHz channel power of less than 2000 watts EIRP.

(i) Peak transmit power shall be measured over any interval of continuous transmission using instrumentation calibrated in terms of rms-equivalent voltage. The measurement results shall be properly adjusted for any instrument limitations, such as detector response times, limited resolution bandwidth capability when compared to the emission bandwidth, etc., so as to obtain a true peak measurement for the emission in question over the full bandwidth of the channel.

