(a) For operations in the 2305-2320 MHz band and the 2345-2360 MHz band, the power of any emission outside a licensee's frequency band(s) of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power P (with averaging performed only during periods of transmission) within the licensed band(s) of operation, in watts, by the following amounts:

(1) For base and fixed stations' operations in the 2305-2320 MHz band and the 2345-2360 MHz band:

(i) By a factor of not less than 43 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between 2305 and 2320 MHz and on all frequencies between 2345 and 2360 MHz that are outside the licensed band of operation, and not less than 75 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between 2320 and 2345 MHz;

(ii) By a factor of not less than: 43 + 10 log (P) dB at 2305 MHz, 70 + 10 log (P) dB at 2300 MHz, 72 + 10 log (P) dB at 2287.5 MHz, and 75 + 10 log (P) dB below 2285 MHz;

(iii) By a factor of not less than: 43 + 10 log (P) dB at 2360 MHz, 55 + 10 log (P) dB at 2362.5 MHz, 70 + 10 log (P) dB at 2365 MHz, 72 + 10 log (P) dB at 2367.5 MHz, and 75 + 10 log (P) dB above 2370 MHz.

(2) For fixed customer premises equipment (CPE) stations operating in the 2305-2320 MHz band and the 2345-2360 MHz band transmitting with more than 2 watts per 5 megahertz average EIRP:

(i) By a factor of not less than: 43 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between 2305 and 2320 MHz and on all frequencies between 2345 and 2360 MHz that are outside the licensed band of operation, and not less than 75 + 10 log (P) dB) on all frequencies between 2320 and 2345 MHz.

(ii) By a factor of not less than: 43 + 10 log (P) dB) at 2305 MHz, 70 + 10 log (P) dB at 2300 MHz, 72 + 10 log (P) dB at 2287.5 MHz, and 75 + 10 log (P) dB below 2285 MHz;

(iii) By a factor of not less than: 43 + 10 log (P) dB at 2360 MHz, 55 + 10 log (P) dB at 2362.5 MHz, 70 + 10 log (P) dB at 2365 MHz, 72 + 10 log (P) dB at 2367.5 MHz, and 75 + 10 log (P) dB) above 2370 MHz.

(3) For fixed CPE stations transmitting with 2 watts per 5 megahertz average EIRP or less:

(i) By a factor of not less than 43 + 10 log (P) dB) on all frequencies between 2305 and 2320 MHz and on all frequencies between 2345 and 2360 MHz that are outside the licensed band of operation, not less than 55 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between 2320 and 2324 MHz and on all frequencies between 2341 and 2345 MHz, not less than 61 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between 2324 and 2328 MHz and on all frequencies between 2337 and 2341 MHz, not less than 67 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between 2328 and 2337 MHz;

(ii) By a factor of not less than 43 + 10 log (P) dB at 2305 MHz, 55 + 10 log (P) dB at 2300 MHz, 61 + 10 log (P) dB at 2296 MHz, 67 + 10 log (P) dB at 2292 MHz, 70 + 10 log (P) dB below 2288 MHz.

(iii) By a factor of not less than: 43 + 10 log (P) dB at 2360 MHz and 70 + 10 log (P) dB above 2365 MHz.
              

(4) For mobile and portable stations operating in the 2305-2317.5 MHz and 2347.5-2360 MHz bands:

(i) By a factor of not less than: 43 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between 2305 and 2317.5 MHz and on all frequencies between 2347.5 and 2360 MHz that are outside the licensed band of operation, not less than 55 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between 2320 and 2324 MHz and on all frequencies between 2341 and 2345 MHz, not less than 61 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between 2324 and 2328 MHz and on all frequencies between 2337 and 2341 MHz, not less than 67 + 10 log (P) dB on all frequencies between 2328 and 2337 MHz.

(ii) By a factor of not less than 43 + 10 log (P) dB at 2305 MHz, 55 + 10 log (P) dB at 2300 MHz, 61 + 10 log (P) dB at 2296 MHz, 67 + 10 log (P) dB at 2292 MHz, and 70 + 10 log (P) dB below 2288 MHz.

(iii) By a factor of not less than: 43 + 10 log (P) dB at 2360 MHz and 70 + 10 log (P) dB above 2365 MHz.

(5) Measurement procedure. Compliance with these rules is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz or greater. However, in the 1-MHz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the channel blocks at 2305, 2310, 2315, 2320, 2345, 2350, 2355, and 2360 MHz, a resolution bandwidth of at least 1 percent of the emission bandwidth of the fundamental emission of the transmitter may be employed. A narrower resolution bandwidth is permitted in all cases to improve measurement accuracy provided the measured power is integrated over the full required measurement bandwidth (i.e. 1 MHz or 1 percent of emission bandwidth, as specified). The emission bandwidth is defined as the width of the signal between two points, one below the carrier center frequency and one above the carrier center frequency, outside of which all emissions are attenuated at least 26 dB below the transmitter power. With respect to television operations, measurements must be made of the separate visual and aural operating powers at sufficiently frequent intervals to ensure compliance with the rules.

(6) [Reserved]

(7) The measurements of emission power can be expressed in peak or average values, provided they are expressed in the same parameters as the transmitter power;

(8) Waiver requests of any of the out-of-band emission limits in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section shall be entertained only if interference protection equivalent to that afforded by the limits is shown;

(9) [Reserved]

(10) The out-of-band emissions limits in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section may be modified by the private contractual agreement of all affected licensees, who must maintain a copy of the agreement in their station files and disclose it to prospective assignees, transferees, or spectrum lessees and, upon request, to the Commission.

(b) For WCS Satellite DARS operations: The limits set forth in § 25.202(f) of this chapter shall apply, except that Satellite DARS operations shall be limited to a maximum power flux density of −197 dBW/m2/4 kHz in the 2370-2390 MHz band at Arecibo, Puerto Rico.

(c) For operations in the 746-758 MHz band and the 776-788 MHz band, the power of any emission outside the licensee's frequency band(s) of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) within the licensed band(s) of operation, measured in watts, in accordance with the following:

(1) On any frequency outside the 746-758 MHz band, the power of any emission shall be attenuated outside the band below the transmitter power (P) by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB;

(2) On any frequency outside the 776-788 MHz band, the power of any emission shall be attenuated outside the band below the transmitter power (P) by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB;

(3) On all frequencies between 763-775 MHz and 793-805 MHz, by a factor not less than 76 + 10 log (P) dB in a 6.25 kHz band segment, for base and fixed stations;

(4) On all frequencies between 763-775 MHz and 793-805 MHz, by a factor not less than 65 + 10 log (P) dB in a 6.25 kHz band segment, for mobile and portable stations;
              

(5) Compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 100 kHz or greater. However, in the 100 kHz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the frequency block, a resolution bandwidth of at least 30 kHz may be employed;

(6) Compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section is based on the use of measurement instrumentation such that the reading taken with any resolution bandwidth setting should be adjusted to indicate spectral energy in a 6.25 kHz segment.

(d) For operations in the 758-763 MHz and 788-793 MHz bands, the power of any emission outside the licensee's frequency bands of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) within the licensed band(s) of operation, measured in watts, in accordance with the following:

(1) On all frequencies between 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz, by a factor not less than 76 + 10 log (P) dB in a 6.25 kHz band segment, for base and fixed stations;

(2) On all frequencies between 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz, by a factor not less than 65 + 10 log (P) dB in a 6.25 kHz band segment, for mobile and portable stations;

(3) On any frequency between 775-788 MHz, above 805 MHz, and below 758 MHz, by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB;

(4) Compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section is based on the use of measurement instrumentation such that the reading taken with any resolution bandwidth setting should be adjusted to indicate spectral energy in a 6.25 kHz segment;

(5) Compliance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 100 kHz or greater. However, in the 100 kHz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the frequency block, a resolution bandwidth of at least 30 kHz may be employed.

(e) For operations in the 775-776 MHz and 805-806 MHz bands, transmitters must comply with either paragraphs (e)(1) to (e)(5) of this section or the ACP emission limitations set forth in paragraphs (e)(6) to (e)(9) of this section.

(1) On all frequencies between 763-775 MHz and 793-805 MHz, the power of any emission outside the licensee's frequency bands of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) within the licensed band(s) of operation, measured in watts, by a factor not less than 76 + 10 log (P) dB in a 6.25 kHz band segment, for base and fixed stations;

(2) On all frequencies between 763-775 MHz and 793-805 MHz, the power of any emission outside the licensee's frequency bands of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) within the licensed band(s) of operation, measured in watts, by a factor not less than 65 + 10 log (P) dB in a 6.25 kHz band segment, for mobile and portable stations;

(3) On any frequency outside the 775-776 MHz and 805-806 MHz bands, the power of any emission shall be attenuated outside the band below the transmitter power (P) within the licensed band(s) of operation, measured in watts, by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB;

(4) Compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section is based on the use of measurement instrumentation such that the reading taken with any resolution bandwidth setting should be adjusted to indicate spectral energy in a 6.25 kHz segment;

(5) Compliance with the provisions of paragraph (e)(3) of this section is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 100 kHz or greater. However, in the 100 kHz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the frequency block, a resolution bandwidth of at least 30 kHz may be employed.

(6) The adjacent channel power (ACP) requirements for transmitters designed for various channel sizes are shown in the following tables. Mobile station requirements apply to handheld, car mounted and control station units. The tables specify a value for the ACP as a function of the displacement from the channel center frequency and measurement bandwidth. In the following tables, “(s)” indicates a swept measurement may be used.

(7) ACP measurement procedure. The following procedures are to be followed for making ACP transmitter measurements. For time division multiple access (TDMA) systems, the measurements are to be made under TDMA operation only during time slots when the transmitter is on. All measurements must be made at the input to the transmitter's antenna. Measurement bandwidth used below implies an instrument that measures the power in many narrow bandwidths (e.g., 300 Hz) and integrates these powers across a larger band to determine power in the measurement bandwidth.

(i) Setting reference level. Using a spectrum analyzer capable of ACP measurements, set the measurement bandwidth to the channel size. For example, for a 6.25 kHz transmitter, set the measurement bandwidth to 6.25 kHz; for a 150 kHz transmitter, set the measurement bandwidth to 150 kHz. Set the frequency offset of the measurement bandwidth to zero and adjust the center frequency of the spectrum analyzer to give the power level in the measurement bandwidth. Record this power level in dBm as the “reference power level”.

(ii) Non-swept power measurement. Using a spectrum analyzer capable of ACP measurements, set the measurement bandwidth as shown in the tables above. Measure the ACP in dBm. These measurements should be made at maximum power. Calculate the coupled power by subtracting the measurements made in this step from the reference power measured in the previous step. The absolute ACP values must be less than the values given in the table for each condition above.

(iii) Swept power measurement. Set a spectrum analyzer to 30 kHz resolution bandwidth, 1 MHz video bandwidth and sample mode detection. Sweep ±MHz from the carrier frequency. Set the reference level to the RMS value of the transmitter power and note the absolute power. The response at frequencies greater than 600 kHz must be less than the values in the tables above.

(8) Out-of-band emission limit. On any frequency outside of the frequency ranges covered by the ACP tables in this section, the power of any emission must be reduced below the unmodulated carrier power (P) by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB.

(9) Authorized bandwidth. Provided that the ACP requirements of this section are met, applicants may request any authorized bandwidth that does not exceed the channel size.

(f) For operations in the 746-763 MHz, 775-793 MHz, and 805-806 MHz bands, emissions in the band 1559-1610 MHz shall be limited to −70 dBW/MHz equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) for wideband signals, and −80 dBW EIRP for discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth. For the purpose of equipment authorization, a transmitter shall be tested with an antenna that is representative of the type that will be used with the equipment in normal operation.

(g) For operations in the 698-746 MHz band, the power of any emission outside a licensee's frequency band(s) of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) within the licensed band(s) of operation, measured in watts, by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB. Compliance with this provision is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 100 kilohertz or greater. However, in the 100 kilohertz bands immediately outside and adjacent to a licensee's frequency block, a resolution bandwidth of at least 30 kHz may be employed.
              

(h) For operations in the 1710-1755 MHz and 2110-2155 MHz bands, the power of any emission outside a licensee's frequency block shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) by at least 43 + 10 log10 (P) dB.

(1) Compliance with this provision is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 1 megahertz or greater. However, in the 1 megahertz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the licensee's frequency block, a resolution bandwidth of at least one percent of the emission bandwidth of the fundamental emission of the transmitter may be employed. The emission bandwidth is defined as the width of the signal between two points, one below the carrier center frequency and one above the carrier center frequency, outside of which all emissions are attenuated at least 26 dB below the transmitter power.

(2) When measuring the emission limits, the nominal carrier frequency shall be adjusted as close to the licensee's frequency block edges, both upper and lower, as the design permits.

(3) The measurements of emission power can be expressed in peak or average values, provided they are expressed in the same parameters as the transmitter power.

(i) When an emission outside of the authorized bandwidth causes harmful interference, the Commission may, at its discretion, require greater attenuation than specified in this section.

(j) For operations in the unpaired 1390-1392 MHz band and the paired 1392-1395 MHz and 1432-1435 MHz bands, the power of any emission outside the licensee's frequency band(s) of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB. Compliance with these provisions is based on the procedures described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(k) For operations in the 1670-1675 MHz band, the power of any emission outside the licensee's frequency band(s) of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) by at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB. Compliance with these provisions is based on the procedures described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(l) [Reserved]

(m) For BRS and EBS stations, the power of any emissions outside the licensee's frequency bands of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) measured in watts in accordance with the standards below. If a licensee has multiple contiguous channels, out-of-band emissions shall be measured from the upper and lower edges of the contiguous channels.

(1) Prior to the transition, and thereafter, solely within the MBS, for analog operations with an EIRP in excess of −9 dBW, the signal shall be attenuated at the channel edges by at least 38 dB relative to the peak visual carrier, then linearly sloping from that level to at least 60 dB of attenuation at 1 MHz below the lower band edge and 0.5 MHz above the upper band edge, and attenuated at least 60 dB at all other frequencies.

(2) For digital base stations, the attenuation shall be not less than 43 + 10 log (P) dB, unless a documented interference complaint is received from an adjacent channel licensee with an overlapping Geographic Service Area. Mobile Satellite Service licensees operating on frequencies below 2495 MHz may also submit a documented interference complaint against BRS licensees operating on channel BRS No. 1 on the same terms and conditions as adjacent channel BRS or EBS licensees. Provided that a documented interference complaint cannot be mutually resolved between the parties prior to the applicable deadline, then the following additional attenuation requirements shall apply:

(i) If a pre-existing base station suffers harmful interference from emissions caused by a new or modified base station located 1.5 km or more away, within 24 hours of the receipt of a documented interference complaint the licensee of the new or modified base station must attenuate its emissions by at least 67 + 10 log (P) dB measured at 3 megahertz, above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block and shall immediately notify the complaining licensee upon implementation of the additional attenuation. No later than 60 days after the implementation of such additional attenuation, the licensee of the complaining base station must attenuate its base station emissions by at least 67 + 10 log (P) dB measured at 3 megahertz, above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block of the new or modified base station.

(ii) If a pre-existing base station suffers harmful interference from emissions caused by a new or modified base station located less than 1.5 km away, within 24 hours of receipt of a documented interference complaint the licensee of the new or modified base station must attenuate its emissions by at least 67 + 10 log (P)−20 log (Dkm/1.5) dB measured at 3 megahertz, above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block of the complaining licensee, or if both base stations are co-located, limit its undesired signal level at the pre-existing base station receiver(s) to no more than −107 dBm measured in a 5.5 megahertz bandwidth and shall immediately notify the complaining licensee upon such reduction in the undesired signal level. No later than 60 days after such reduction in the undesired signal level, the complaining licensee must attenuate its base station emissions by at least 67 + 10 log (P) dB measured at 3 megahertz, above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block of the new or modified base station.

(iii) If a new or modified base station suffers harmful interference from emissions caused by a pre-existing base station located 1.5 km or more away, within 60 days of receipt of a documented interference complaint the licensee of each base station must attenuate its base station emissions by at least 67 + 10 log (P) dB measured at 3 megahertz, above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block of the other licensee.

(iv) If a new or modified base station suffers harmful interference from emissions caused by a pre-existing base station located less than 1.5 km away, within 60 days of receipt of a documented interference complaint: (a) The licensee of the new or modified base station must attenuate its OOBE by at least 67 + 10 log (P)−20 log (Dkm/1.5) measured 3 megahertz above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block of the other licensee, or if the base stations are co-located, limit its undesired signal level at the other base station receiver(s) to no more than −107 dBm measured in a 5.5-megahertz bandwidth; and (b) the licensee causing the interference must attenuate its emissions by at least 67 + 10 log (P) dB measured at 3 megahertz, above or below, from the channel edge of its frequency block of the new or modified base station.

(v) For all fixed digital user stations, the attenuation factor shall be not less than 43 + 10 log (P) dB at the channel edge.

(3) Prior to transition and thereafter solely within the MBS, and notwithstanding paragraph (l)(2) of this section, the maximum out-of-band power of a digital transmitter operating on a single 6 MHz channel with an EIRP in excess of −9 dBW employing digital modulation for the primary purpose of transmitting video programming shall be attenuated at the 6 MHz channel edges at least 25 dB relative to the licensed average 6 MHz channel power level, then attenuated along a linear slope to at least 40 dB at 250 kHz beyond the nearest channel edge, then attenuated along a linear slope from that level to at least 60 dB at 3 MHz above the upper and below the lower licensed channel edges, and attenuated at least 60 dB at all other frequencies.

(4) For mobile digital stations, the attenuation factor shall be not less than 43 + 10 log (P) dB at the channel edge and 55 + 10 log (P) dB at 5.5 megahertz from the channel edges. Mobile Satellite Service licensees operating on frequencies below 2495 MHz may also submit a documented interference complaint against BRS licensees operating on BRS Channel 1 on the same terms and conditions as adjacent channel BRS or EBS licensees.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (l)(2) and (l)(4) of this section, prior to transition, a licensee may continue to operate facilities deployed as of January 10, 2005 provided that such facilities operate in compliance with the emission mask applicable to those services prior to January 10, 2005.

(6) Measurement procedure. Compliance with these rules is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz or greater. However, in the 1 MHz bands immediately outside and adjacent to the frequency block a resolution bandwidth of at least one percent of the emission bandwidth of the fundamental emission of the transmitter may be employed. A narrower resolution bandwidth is permitted in all cases to improve measurement accuracy provided the measured power is integrated over the full required measurement bandwidth (i.e. 1 MHz or 1 percent of emission bandwidth, as specified). The emission bandwidth is defined as the width of the signal between two points, one below the carrier center frequency and one above the carrier center frequency, outside of which all emissions are attenuated at least 26 dB below the transmitter power. With respect to television operations, measurements must be made of the separate visual and aural operating powers at sufficiently frequent intervals to ensure compliance with the rules.

(7) Alternative out of band emission limit. Licensees in this service may establish an alternative out of band emission limit to be used at specified band edge(s) in specified geographical areas, in lieu of that set forth in this section, pursuant to a private contractual arrangement of all affected licensees and applicants. In this event, each party to such contract shall maintain a copy of the contract in their station files and disclose it to prospective assignees or transferees and, upon request, to the FCC.

(n) When an emission outside of the authorized bandwidth causes harmful interference, the Commission may, at its discretion, require greater attenuation than specified in this section.

