(a) Involuntary act. If the service provided by a fixed common carrier licensee, or a fixed common carrier operating on spectrum licensed to a Guard Band Manager, is involuntarily discontinued, reduced, or impaired for a period exceeding 48 hours, the licensee must promptly notify the Commission, in writing, as to the reasons for discontinuance, reduction, or impairment of service, including a statement when normal service is to be resumed. When normal service is resumed, the licensee must promptly notify the Commission.

(b) Voluntary act by common carrier. If a fixed common carrier licensee, or a fixed common carrier operating on spectrum licensed to a Guard Band Manager, voluntarily discontinues, reduces, or impairs service to a community or part of a community, it must obtain prior authorization as provided under ยง 63.71 of this chapter. An application will be granted within 31 days after filing if no objections have been received.

(c) Voluntary act by non-common carrier. If a fixed non-common carrier licensee, or a fixed non-common carrier operating on spectrum licensed to a Guard Band Manager, voluntarily discontinues, reduces, or impairs service to a community or part of a community, it must given written notice to the Commission within seven days.
              

(d) Notifications and requests. Notifications and requests identified in paragraphs(a) through (c) of this section should be sent to: Federal Communications Commission, Common Carrier Radio Services, 1270 Fairfield Road, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, 17325.

