This section requires Wireless Communications Services (WCS) licensees in the 2345-2360 MHz band to coordinate the deployment of base stations with Aeronautical Mobile Telemetry (AMT) facilities in the 2360-2395 MHz band; and to take all practicable steps necessary to minimize the risk of harmful interference to AMT facilities.

(a) Wireless Communications Service (WCS) licensees operating base stations in the 2345-2360 MHz band shall, prior to operation of such base stations, achieve a mutually satisfactory coordination agreement with the Aerospace and Flight Test Radio Coordinating Council (AFTRCC) for any AMT receiver facility within 45 kilometers or the radio line of sight, whichever distance is larger, of the intended WCS base station location. This coordination is necessary to protect AMT receive systems consistent with Recommendation ITU-R M.1459. The locations of the current and planned Federal and non-Federal AMT receiver sites may be obtained from AFTRCC.

(b) WCS licensees operating base stations in the 2305-2320 MHz band shall, prior to operation of such base stations, achieve a mutually satisfactory coordination agreement with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) within 145 kilometers of the Goldstone, CA earth station site (35°25′33″ N, 116°53′23″ W).

(c) After base station operations commence, upon receipt of a complaint of harmful interference, the WCS licensee(s) receiving the complaint, no matter the distance from the NASA Goldstone, CA earth station or from an AMT site, operating in the 2305-2320 or 2345-2360 MHz bands, respectively, shall take all practicable steps to immediately eliminate the interference.

(d) Duty to cooperate. WCS licensees, AFTRCC, and NASA must cooperate in good faith in the coordination and deployment of new facilities. WCS licensees must also cooperate in good faith in the selection and use of new station sites and new frequencies when within radio line of site of AMT receiver facilities to reduce the risk of harmful interference and make the most effective use of the authorized facilities. Licensees of stations suffering or causing harmful interference must cooperate in good faith and resolve such problems by mutually satisfactory arrangements. If the licensees are unable to do so, the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, in consultation with the Office of Engineering and Technology and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration may impose restrictions including specifying the transmitter power, antenna height, or area or hours of operation of the stations.

