This section requires WCS licensees in the 2305-2320 MHz and 2345-2360 MHz bands to share information regarding the location and operation of base stations with Satellite Digital Audio Radio Service (SDARS) licensees in the 2320-2345 MHz band. Section 25.263 of this chapter requires SDARS licensees in the 2320-2345 MHz band to share information regarding the location and operation of terrestrial repeaters with WCS licensees in the 2305-2320 MHz and 2345-2360 MHz bands.

(a) Sites and frequency selections. WCS licensees must select base station sites and frequencies, to the extent practicable, to minimize the possibility of harmful interference to operations in the SDARS 2320-2345 MHz band.

(b) Prior notice periods. WCS licensees that intend to operate a base station must, before commencing such operation, provide 10 business days prior notice to all SDARS licensees. WCS licensees that intend to modify an existing base station must, before commencing such modified operation, provide 5 business days prior notice to all SDARS licensees. For the purposes of this section, a business day is defined by § 1.4(e)(2) of this chapter.

(c) Contents of notice. (1) Notification must be written (e.g., certified letter, fax, or e-mail) and include the licensee's name, and the name, address, and telephone number of its coordination representative, unless the SDARS licensee and all potentially affected WCS licensees reach a mutual agreement to provide notification by some other means. WCS licensees and SDARS licensees may establish such a mutually agreeable alternative notification mechanism without prior Commission approval, provided that they comply with all other requirements of this section.

(2) Regardless of the notification method, it must specify relevant technical details, including, at a minimum:

(i) The coordinates of the proposed base station to an accuracy of no less than ± 1 second latitude and longitude;

(ii) The proposed operating power(s), frequency band(s), and emission(s);

(iii) The antenna center height above ground and ground elevation above mean sea level, both to an accuracy of no less than ± 1 meter;

(iv) The antenna gain pattern(s) in the azimuth and elevation planes that include the peak of the main beam; and

(v) The antenna downtilt angle(s).

(3) A WCS licensee operating base stations must maintain an accurate and up-to-date inventory of its base stations, including the information set forth in § 27.72(c)(2), which shall be available upon request by the Commission.

(d) Calculation of notice period. Notice periods are calculated from the date of receipt by the licensee being notified. If notification is by mail, the date of receipt is evidenced by the return receipt on certified mail. If notification is by fax, the date of receipt is evidenced by the notifying party's fax transmission confirmation log. If notification is by e-mail, the date of receipt is evidenced by a return e-mail receipt. If the SDARS licensee and all potentially affected WCS licensees reach a mutual agreement to provide notification by some other means, that agreement must specify the method for determining the beginning of the notice period.

(e) Duty to cooperate. WCS licensees must cooperate in good faith in the selection and use of new station sites and new frequencies to reduce interference and make the most effective use of the authorized facilities. WCS licensees should provide SDARS licensees as much lead time as practicable to provide ample time to conduct analyses and opportunity for prudent base station site selection prior to WCS licensees entering into real estate and tower leasing or purchasing agreements. WCS licensees must have sufficient operational flexibility in their network design to implement one or more technical solutions to remedy harmful interference. Licensees of stations suffering or causing harmful interference must cooperate in good faith and resolve such problems by mutually satisfactory arrangements. If the licensees are unable to do so, the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, in consultation with the Office of Engineering and Technology and the International Bureau, will consider the actions taken by the parties to mitigate the risk of and remedy any alleged interference. In determining the appropriate action, the Bureau will take into account the nature and extent of the interference and act promptly to remedy the interference. The Bureau may impose restrictions on WCS licensees, including specifying the transmitter power, antenna height, or other technical or operational measures to remedy the interference, and will take into account previous measures by the licensees to mitigate the risk of interference.

