(a) Accounting Authority. The Administration of the country that has issued the license for a mobile station or the recognized operating agency or other entity/entities designated by the Administration in accordance with ITR, Appendix 2 and ITU-T Recommendation D.90 to whom maritime accounts in respect of mobile stations licensed by that country may be sent.

(b) Accounting Authority Certification Officer. The official designated by the Managing Director, Federal Communications Commission, who is responsible, based on the coordination and review of information related to applicants, for granting certification as an accounting authority in the maritime mobile and maritime mobile-satellite radio services. The Accounting Authority Certification Officer may initiate action to suspend or cancel an accounting authority certification if it is determined to be in the public's best interest.

(c) Accounting Authority Identification Codes (AAICs). The discrete identification code of an accounting authority responsible for the settlement of maritime accounts (Annex A to ITU-T Recommendation D.90).

(d) Administration. Any governmental department or service responsible for discharging the obligations undertaken in the Convention of the International Telecommunication Union and the Radio Regulations. For purposes of these rules, “Administration” refers to a foreign government or the U.S. Government, and more specifically, to the Federal Communications Commission.

(e) Authorization. Approval by the Federal Communications Commission to operate as an accounting authority. Synonymous with “certification”.

(f) CCITT. The internationally recognized French acronym for the International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee, one of the former sub-entities of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). The CCITT (ITU-T) 1

                 is responsible for developing international telecommunications recommendations relating to standardization of international telecommunications services and facilities, including matters related to international charging and accounting principles and the settlement of international telecommunications accounts.

Such recommendations are, effectively, the detailed implementation provisions for topics addressed in the International Telecommunication Regulations (ITR).

(g) Certification. Approval by the FCC to operate as an accounting authority. Synonymous with “authorization”.

(h) Coast Earth Station. An earth station in the fixed-satellite service or, in some cases, in the maritime mobile-satellite service, located at a specified fixed point on land to provide a feeder link for the maritime mobile-satellite service.

(i) Coast Station. A land station in the maritime mobile service.

(j) Commission. The Federal Communications Commission. The FCC.

(k) Gold Franc. A monetary unit representing the value of a particular nation's currency to a gold par value. One of the monetary units used to effect accounting settlements in the maritime mobile and the maritime mobile-satellite services.

(l) International Telecommunication Union (ITU). One of the United Nations family organizations headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland along with several other United Nations (UN) family organizations. The ITU is the UN agency responsible for all matters related to international telecommunications. The ITU has over 180 Member Countries, including the United States, and provides an international forum for dealing with all aspects of international telecommunications, including radio, telecom services and telecom facilities.

(m) Linking Coefficient. The ITU mandated conversion factor used to convert gold francs to Special Drawing Rights (SDRs). Among other things, it is used to perform accounting settlements in the maritime mobile and the maritime mobile-satellite services.

(n) Maritime Mobile Service. A mobile service between coast stations and ship stations, or between ship stations, or between associated on-board communication stations. Survival craft stations and emergency position- indicating radiobeacon stations may also participate in this service.

(o) Maritime Mobile-Satellite Service. A mobile-satellite service in which mobile earth stations are located on board ships. Survival craft stations and emergency position-indicating radiobeacon stations may also participate in this radio service.

(p) Public Correspondence. Any telecommunication which the offices and stations must, by reason of their being at the disposal of the public, accept for transmission. This usually applies to maritime mobile and maritime mobile-satellite stations.

(q) Recognized Operating Agencies (ROAs).
                2
                 Individuals, companies or corporations, other than governments or agencies, recognized by administrations, which operate telecommunications installations or provide telecommunications services intended for international use or which are capable of causing interference to international telecommunications. ROAs which settle debtor accounts for public correspondence in the maritime mobile and maritime mobile-satellite radio services must be certified as accounting authorities.

(r) Ship Station. A mobile station in the maritime mobile service located on board a vessel which is not permanently moored, other than a survival craft station.

(s) Special Drawing Right (SDR). A monetary unit of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) currently based on a market basket of exchange rates for the United States, West Germany, Great Britain, France and Japan but is subject to IMF's definition. One of the monetary units used to effect accounting settlements in the maritime mobile and maritime mobile-satellite services.

(t) United States. The continental U.S., Alaska, Hawaii, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands or any territory or possession of the United States.

