(a) Initial Inventory of Vessels. Within 60 days after receiving final approval from the FCC to be an accounting authority, each certified accounting authority must provide to the FCC an initial list of vessels for which it is performing settlements. This list should contain only U.S. registered vessels. Such list shall be typewritten or computer generated, be annotated to indicate it is the initial inventory and be in the general format of the following and provide the information shown:

(b) Semi-Annual Additions/Modifications/Deletions to Vessel Inventory. Beginning with the period ending on the last day of March or September following submission of an accounting authority's Initial Inventory of Vessels (See paragraph (a) of this section.) and each semi-annual period thereafter, each accounting authority is required to submit to the FCC a report on additions, modifications or deletions to its list of vessels for which it is performing or intending to perform settlements, whether or not settlements actually have taken place. The list should contain only U.S. registered vessels. The report shall be typewritten or computer generated and be in the following general format:

(c) End of Year Inventory. By February 1st of each year, each accounting authority must submit an end-of-year inventory report listing vessels for which the accounting authority performed settlements as of the previous December 31st. The list should contain only U.S. registered vessels. The report must be typewritten or computer generated and prepared in the same general format as that shown in paragraph (a) of this section except it should be annotated to indicate it is the End of Year inventory.

(d) Annual Statistical Report of Settlement Operations. By February 1st of each year, each accounting authority settling accounts for U.S. registered vessels must submit to the FCC an Annual Statistical Report, FCC Form 45, which details the number and dollar amount of settlements, by foreign administration, during the preceding twelve months. Information contained in this report provides statistical data that will enable the Commission to monitor operations to ensure adherence to these rules and to appropriate international settlement procedures. FCC Form 45 can be obtained by writing to the address in 3.61 of these rules.

