(a) The Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management (hereinafter referred to as the NTIA Manual) is issued by the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information, and is specifically designed to cover the Assistant Secretary's frequency management responsibilities pursuant to delegated authority under 47 U.S.C. 901 et seq. and Executive Order 12046 (March 27, 1978).

(b) The federal agencies shall comply with the requirements set forth in the January 2008 edition of the NTIA Manual, as revised through May 2011, which is incorporated by reference with approval of the Director, Office of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51.

(c) The NTIA Manual is scheduled for revision in January, May, and September of each year. The revisions are submitted to the Director of the Federal Register for Incorporation by Reference approval. Notices of these changes are printed in the Federal Register. The NTIA Manual is available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, by referring to Catalog Number 903-008-00000-8. A reference copy of the NTIA Manual, including all revision in effect, is available in the Office of Spectrum Management, 1401 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room 1087, Washington, DC 20230, or call William Mitchell at (202) 482-8124. The NTIA Manual is available online at http://www.ntia.doc.gov/osmhome/redbook/redbook.html. The NTIA Manual is on file at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741 6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

