(a) Manufacturers wishing to participate in the coupon program must submit a notice of intent to NTIA at least three months prior to submitting test results and sample models of converter boxes. Notices should be sent to DTV Converter Coupon Program, NTIA/OTIA, U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 4809, Washington, DC 20230, Fax Number 202-482-4626 and provide the name, title, address, and phone number of an individual responsible for the manufacturer's submission. The notice shall also include a brief description of the proposed converter box, including permitted as well as required features, and the date which the proposed converter box is expected to be available for testing.

(b) NTIA shall treat the notices of intent received as business confidential and proprietary information and will not release information from the notices of intent to the public unless otherwise required by law.

(c) The manufacturer will supply two production sample converter boxes to NTIA. NTIA will provide the manufacturer with mailing information in a letter of acknowledgment after NTIA receives the notice of intent.

(d) Each model proposed to be a CECB shall meet the performance specification and features set forth in Technical Appendix 1 of this Section. Each model proposed may also include “permitted” features set forth in Technical Appendix 2, but shall not include “disqualifying” features set forth therein.

(e ) NTIA may issue other guidance or test-bed conditions and it is the manufacturer's responsibility to conduct tests pursuant to any guidance so provided. A manufacturer shall conduct its own tests or have a qualified independent third party conduct the tests.

(f) Reports of test conditions and test results must be clear and comprehensive so that they can be easily interpreted by NTIA and others reviewing them. The FCC may test converter boxes, if requested by NTIA.

(g) Test results shall be submitted to NTIA along with a certification of the testing supervisor as to their authenticity, completeness and accuracy based on personal knowledge.

(h) NTIA will provide prompt notice to the individual submitting test results whether the model has met technical approval and is or is not a CECB. NTIA will base its decision whether to approve each converter box upon consultation with the FCC.

(i) A list of CECBs, including make and model number, will be maintained by NTIA and regularly distributed to participating retailers for use in electronic Point-of-Sale (POS) systems.

(j) It is the responsibility of the manufacturers to resolve any performance or product defect issues with consumers and retailers.

(k) NTIA shall not warrant the performance, suitability, or usefulness of any CECB for any use.

