
            Act means Title III of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, Pub. L. No. 109-171, 120 Stat. 4, 21 (Feb. 8, 2006).


            Agency means the National Telecommunications and Information Administration of the United States Department of Commerce or its contractor.


            Assisted living facility means a public facility, proprietary facility, or facility of a private nonprofit corporation that: is licensed by the State and makes available to residents supportive services to assist the residents in carrying out activities of daily living, such as bathing, dressing, eating, getting in and out of bed or chairs, walking, going outdoors, using the toilet, laundry, home management, preparing meals, shopping for personal items, obtaining and taking medication, managing money, using the telephone, or performing light or heavy housework, and which may make available to residents home health care services, such as nursing and therapy; and provides separate dwelling units for residents, each of which may contain a full kitchen and bathroom, and which includes common rooms and other facilities appropriate for the provision of supportive services to the residents of the facility.


            Certified retailer means a seller of Coupon-Eligible Converter Boxes directly to consumers that has met the requirements for certification and has been identified by NTIA as certified to redeem coupons.


            Contingent funds means those funds referenced in Section 3005 (c)(3) of the Act.


            Coupon means a voucher provided by the Agency to Eligible Households which only may be used to purchase a Coupon-Eligible Converter Box from a Certified Retailer.


            Coupon-Eligible Converter Box (CECB) means a stand-alone device that does not contain features or functions except those necessary to enable a consumer to convert any channel broadcast in the digital television service into a format that the consumer can display on a television receiver designed to receive and display signals only in the analog television service. CECBs may also include remote control devices. CECBs must have the features required by, and meet the technical performance specifications listed in Technical Appendix 1.


            Department means the United States Department of Commerce.


            Eligible household means those Households in the United States and its territories that make a valid request for a coupon pursuant to Rule 301.3 within the time period specified by NTIA, but no later than March 31, 2009.


            FCC means the Federal Communications Commission.


            State includes each of the fifty states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands.


            Household consists of all persons who currently occupy a house, apartment, mobile home, group of rooms, or single room that is occupied as separate living quarters and has a separate U.S. Postal address. A household does not mean a Post Office Box.


            Intermediate care facility means a proprietary facility or facility of a private nonprofit corporation or association licensed by the State for the accommodation of persons who, because of incapacitating infirmities, require minimum but continuous care but are not in need of continuous medical or nursing services.


            Nursing home means a public facility, proprietary facility or facility of a private nonprofit corporation or association, licensed by the State for the accommodation of convalescents or other persons who are not acutely ill and not in need of hospital care but who require skilled nursing care and related medical services, in which such nursing care and medical services are prescribed by, or are performed under the general direction of, persons licensed to provide such care or services in accordance with the laws of the State where the facility is located.


            Nursing home resident means an individual who lives on a permanent basis at a Nursing Home, Intermediate Care Facility, or Assisted Living Facility. A Nursing Home Resident does not have a permanent address that is separate from the Nursing Home, Intermediate Care Facility, or the Assisted Living Facility.

