(a) This account shall include the amount of current funds available for use on demand in the hands of financial officers and agents, deposited in banks or other financial institutions and also funds in transit for which agents have received credit.

(b) This account shall include the amount of cash on special deposit, other than in sinking and other special funds provided for elsewhere, to pay dividends, interest, and other debts, when such payments are due one year or less from the date of deposit; the amount of cash deposited to insure the performance of contracts to be performed within one year from date of the deposit; and other cash deposits of a special nature not provided for elsewhere. This account shall include the amount of cash deposited with trustees to be held until mortgaged property sold, destroyed, or otherwise disposed of is replaced, and also cash realized from the sale of the company's securities and deposited with trustees to be held until invested in physical property of the company or for disbursement when the purposes for which the securities were sold are accomplished.

(c) Cash on special deposit to be held for more than one year from the date of deposit shall be included in Account 1410, Other noncurrent assets.

(d) This account shall include the amount of cash advanced to officers, agents, employees, and others as petty cash or working funds from which expenditures are to be made and accounted for.

(e) This account shall include the cost of current securities acquired for the purpose of temporarily investing cash, such as time drafts receivable and time loans, bankers' acceptances, United States Treasury certificates, marketable securities, and other similar investments of a temporary character.

(f) Accumulated changes in the net unrealized losses of current marketable equity securities shall be included in the determination of net income in the period in which they occur in Account 7300, Other Nonoperating Income and Expense.

(g) Subsidiary record categories shall be maintained in order that the entity may separately report the amounts of temporary investments that relate to affiliates and nonaffiliates. Such subsidiary record categories shall be reported as required by part 43 of this chapter.

