(a) This account shall include all amounts due from customers for services rendered or billed and from agents and collectors authorized to make collections from customers. This account shall also include all amounts due from customers or agents for products sold. This account shall be kept in such manner as will enable the company to make the following analysis:

(1) Amounts due from customers who are receiving telecommunications service.

(2) Amounts due from customers who are not receiving service and whose accounts are in process of collection.

(b) Collections in excess of amounts charged to this account may be credited to and carried in this account until applied against charges for services rendered or until refunded.

(c) Cost of demand or time notes, bills and drafts receivable, or other similar evidences (except interest coupons) of money receivable on demand or within a time not exceeding one year from date of issue.

(d) Amount of interest accrued to the date of the balance sheet on bonds, notes, and other commercial paper owned, on loans made, and the amount of dividends receivable on stocks owned.

(e) This account shall not include dividends or other returns on securities issued or assumed by the company and held by or for it, whether pledged as collateral, or held in its treasury, in special deposits, or in sinking and other funds.

(f) Dividends received and receivable from affiliated companies accounted for on the equity method shall be included in Account 1410, Other noncurrent assets, as a reduction of the carrying value of the investment.

(g) This account shall include all amounts currently due, and not provided for in (a) through (g) of this section such as those for traffic settlements, divisions of revenue, material and supplies, matured rents, and interest receivable under monthly settlements on short-term loans, advances, and open accounts. If any of these items are not to be paid currently, they shall be transferred to Account 1410, Other noncurrent assets.

(h) Subsidiary record categories shall be maintained in order that the entity may separately report the amounts contained herein that relate to affiliates and nonaffiliates. Such subsidiary record categories shall be reported as required by part 43 of this chapter.

