(a) For purposes of this section, the term “company” or “companies” means incumbent local exchange carrier(s) as defined in section 251(h) of the Communications Act, and any other carriers that the Commission designates by Order. Incumbent local exchange carriers' successor or assign companies, as defined in section 251(h)(1)(B)(ii) of the Communications Act, that are found to be non-dominant by the Commission, will not be subject to this Uniform System of Accounts.

(b) For accounting purposes, companies are divided into classes as follows:

(1) Class A. Companies having annual revenues from regulated telecommunications operations that are equal to or above the indexed revenue threshold.

(2) Class B. Companies having annual revenues from regulated telecommunications operations that are less than the indexed revenue threshold.

(c) Class A companies, except mid-sized incumbent local exchange carriers, as defined by § 32.9000, shall keep all the accounts of this system of accounts which are applicable to their affairs and are designated as Class A accounts. Class A companies, which include mid-sized incumbent local exchange carriers, shall keep Basic Property Records in compliance with the requirements of §§ 32.2000(e) and (f).

(d) Class B companies and mid-sized incumbent local exchange carriers, as defined by § 32.9000, shall keep all accounts of this system of accounts which are applicable to their affairs and are designated as Class B accounts. Mid-sized incumbent local exchange carriers shall also maintain subsidiary record categories necessary to provide the pole attachment data currently provided in the Class A accounts. Class B companies shall keep Continuing Property Records in compliance with the requirements of §§ 32.2000(e)(7)(i)(A) and 32.2000(f).

(e) Class B companies and mid-sized incumbent local exchange carriers, as defined by § 32.9000 of this part, that desire more detailed accounting may adopt the accounts prescribed for Class A companies upon the submission of a written notification to the Commission.

(f) The classification of a company shall be determined at the start of the calendar year following the first time its annual operating revenue from regulated telecommunications operations equals, exceeds, or falls below the indexed revenue threshold.

