(a) As a general rule, all accounts kept by reporting companies shall conform in numbers and titles to those prescribed herein. However, reporting companies may use different numbers for internal purposes when separate accounts (or subaccounts) maintained are consistent with the title and content of accounts and subaccounts prescribed in this system.

(1) A company may subdivide any of the accounts prescribed. The titles of all such subaccounts shall refer by number or title to the controlling account.

(2) A company may establish temporary or experimental accounts without prior notice to the Commission.

(b) Exercise of the preceding options shall be allowed only if the integrity of the prescribed accounts is not impaired.

(c) As of the date a company becomes subject to the system of accounts, the company is authorized to make any such subdivisions, reclassifications or consolidations of existing balances as are necessary to meet the requirements of this system of accounts.

(d) Nothing contained in this part shall prohibit or excuse any company, receiver, or operating trustee of any carrier from subdividing the accounts hereby prescribed for the purpose of:

(1) Complying with the requirements of the state commission(s) having jurisdiction; or

(2) Securing the information required in the prescribed reports to such commission(s).

(e) Where the use of subsidiary records is considered necessary in order to secure the information required in reports to any state commission, the company shall incorporate the following controls into their accounting system with respect to such subsidiary records:

(1) Subsidiary records shall be reconciled to the company's general ledger or books of original entry, as appropriate.

(2) The company shall adequately document the accounting procedures related to subsidiary records.

(3) The subsidiary records shall be maintained at an adequate level of detail to satisfy state regulators.

