(a) This account shall include such items as:

(1) The unprovided-for loss in service value of telecommunications plant for extraordinary nonrecurring retirement not considered in depreciation and the cost of extensive replacements of plant normally chargeable to the current period Plant Specific Operations Expense accounts. These charges shall be included in this account only upon direction or approval from this Commission. However, the company's application to this Commission for such approval shall give full particulars concerning the property retired, the extensive replacements, the amount chargeable to operating expenses and the period over which in its judgment the amount of such charges should be distributed.

(2) Unaudited amounts and other debit balances in suspense that cannot be cleared and disposed of until additional information is received; the amount, pending determination of loss, of funds on deposit with banks which have failed; revenue, expense, and income items held in suspense; amounts paid for options pending final disposition.

(3) Cost of preliminary surveys, plans, investigation, etc., made for construction projects under contemplation. If the projects are carried out, the preliminary costs shall be included in the cost of the plant constructed. If the projects are abandoned, the preliminary costs shall be charged to Account 7300, Nonoperating income and expense.

(4) Cost of evaluations, inventories, and appraisals taken in connection with the acquisition or sale of property. If the property is subsequently acquired, the preliminary costs shall be accounted for as a part of the cost of acquisition, or if it is sold, such costs shall be deducted from the sale price in accounting for the property sold. If purchases or sales are abandoned, the preliminary costs included herein (including options paid, if any) shall be charged to Account 7300.

(b) Charges provided for in paragraph (a) of this section shall be included in this account only upon direction or approval from this Commission. However, the company's application to this Commission for such approval shall give full particulars concerning the property retired, the extensive replacements, the amount chargeable to operating expenses and the period over which in its judgment the amount of such charges should be distributed.

