(a) This account shall include the cost of materials and supplies held in stock and inventories of goods held for resale or lease. The investment in inventories shall be maintained in the following subaccounts:
              

(b) These subaccounts shall not include items which are related to a nonregulated activity unless that activity involves joint or common use of assets and resources in the provision of regulated and nonregulated products and services.

(c) 1220.1 Material and supplies. This subaccount shall include cost of material and supplies held in stock including plant supplies, motor vehicles supplies, tools, fuel, other supplies and material and articles of the company in process of manufacture for supply stock. (Note also ยง 32.2000(c)(2)(iii) of this subpart.)

(d) Transportation charges and sales and use taxes, so far as practicable, shall be included as a part of the cost of the particular material to which they relate. Transportation and sales and use taxes which are not included as part of the cost of particular material shall be equitably apportioned among the detail accounts to which material is charged.

(e) So far as practicable, cash and other discount on material shall be deducted in determining cost of the particular material to which they relate or credited to the account to which the material is charged. When such deduction is not practicable, discounts shall be equitably apportioned among the detail accounts to which material is charged.

(f) Material recovered in connection with construction, maintenance or retirement of property shall be charged to this account as follows:

(1) Reusable items that, when installed or in service, were retirement units shall be included in this account at the original cost, estimated if not known. (Note also ยง 32.2000(d)(3) of this subpart.)

(2) Reusable minor items that, when installed or in service, were not retirement units shall be included in this account at current prices new.

(3) The cost of repairing reusable material shall be charged to the appropriate account in the Plant Specific Operations Expense accounts.

(4) Scrap and nonusable material included in this account shall be carried at the estimated amount which will be received therefor. The difference between the amounts realized for scrap and nonusable material sold and the amounts at which it is carried in this account, so far as practicable, shall be adjusted in the accounts credited when the material was taken up in this account.

(g) Interest paid on material bills, the payments of which are delayed, shall be charged to Account 7500, Interest and related items.

(h) Inventories of material and supplies shall be taken periodically or frequently enough for reporting purposes, as appropriate, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The adjustments to this account shall be charged or credited to Account 6512, Provisioning expense.

(i) 1220.2Property held for sale or lease. This subaccount shall include the cost of all items purchased for resale or lease. The cost shall include applicable transportation charges, sales and use taxes, and cash and other purchase discounts. Inventory shortage and overage shall be charged and credited, respectively, to Account 5280, Nonregulated operating revenue.

