(a) This account shall include the original cost of equipment which is used to reduce the number of physical pairs otherwise required to serve a given number of subscribers by utilizing carrier systems, concentration stages or combinations of both. It shall include equipment that provides for simultaneous use of a number of interoffice channels on a single transmission path. This account shall also include equipment which is used for the amplification, modulation, regeneration, circuit patching, balancing or control of signals transmitted over interoffice communications transmission channels. This account shall include equipment which utilizes the message path to carry signaling information or which utilizes separate channels between switching offices to transmit signaling information independent of the subscribers' communication paths or transmission channels. This account shall also include the original cost of associated material used in the construction of such plant. Circuit equipment may be located in central offices, in manholes, on poles, in cabinets or huts, or at other company locations. The investment in circuit equipment shall be maintained in the following subaccounts: 2232.1 Electronic and 2232.2 Optical.

(b) This subaccount 2232.1 Electronic shall include the original cost of electronic circuit equipment.

(c) This subaccount 2232.2 Optical shall include the original cost of optical circuit equipment.

(d) Circuit equipment that converts electronic signals to optical signals or optical signals to electronic signals shall be categorized as electronic.

(e) This account excludes carrier and auxiliary equipment and patch bays which are includable in Account 2231.2, Other Radio Facilities. This account also excludes such equipment which is an integral component of a major unit which is classifiable to other accounts.

(f) Subsidiary record categories shall be maintained in order that the company may separately report the amounts contained herein that relate to digital and analog. Such subsidiary record categories shall be reported as required by part 43 of this Commission's Rules and Regulations.

