(a) This account shall include the cost of organizing and incorporating the company, the original cost of government franchises, the original cost of patent rights, and other intangible property having a life of more than one year and used in connection with the company's telecommunications operations.

(b) Class A companies, except mid-sized incumbent local exchange carriers, shall maintain subsidiary records for general purpose computer software and for network software. Subsidiary records for this account shall also include a description of each class of all other tangible property.

(c) The cost of other intangible assets, not including software, having a life of one year or less shall be charged directly to Account 6564, Amortization expense—intangible. Such intangibles acquired at small cost may also be charged to Account 6564, irrespective of their term of life. The cost of software having a life of one year or less shall be charged directly to the applicable expense account with which the software is associated.

(d) The amortization associated with the costs recorded in the Intangibles account will be credited directly to this asset account, leaving a balance representing the unamortized cost.

(e) This account shall not include any discounts on securities issued, nor shall it include costs incident to negotiating loans, selling bonds or other evidences of debt, or expenses in connection with the authorization, issuance, sale or resale of capital stock.

(f) When charges are made to this account for expenses incurred in mergers, consolidations, or reorganizations, amounts previously included in this account on the books of the various companies concerned shall not be carried over.

(g) Franchise taxes payable annually or more frequently shall be charged to Account 7240, Operating other taxes.

(h) This account shall not include the cost of plant, material and supplies, or equipment furnished to municipalities or other governmental authorities when given other than as initial consideration for franchises or similar rights. (Note also Account 6720, General & administrative).

(i) This account shall not include the original cost of easements, rights of way, and similar rights in land having a term of more than one year. Such amounts shall be recorded in Account 2111, Land, or in the appropriate outside plant account (see Accounts 2411 through 2441), or in the appropriate central office account (see Accounts 2211 through 2232).

