(a) This account shall include the original cost of all land held in fee and of easements, and similar rights in land having a term of more than one year used for purposes other than the location of outside plant (see Accounts 2411 through 2441) or externally mounted central office equipment (see Accounts 2211 and 2212). It shall also include special assessments upon land for the construction of public improvements.

(b) When land, together with buildings thereon, is acquired, the original cost shall be fairly apportioned between the land and the buildings and accounted for accordingly. If the plan of acquisition contemplates the removal of buildings, the total cost of the land and buildings shall be accounted for as the cost of the land, and the salvage value of the buildings when disposed of shall be deducted from the cost of the land so determined.

(c) Annual or more frequent payments for use of land shall be recorded in the rent subsidiary record category for Account 6121, Land and Building Expense.

(d) When land is acquired for which there is not a definite plan for its use in telecommunications service, its costs shall be included in Account 2006, Nonoperating Plant.

(e) When land is acquired in excess of that required for telecommunications purposes, the cost of such excess land shall be included in Account 2006.

(f) Installments of assessments for public improvement, including interest, if any, which are deferred without option to the company shall be included in this account only as they become due and payable. Interest on assessments which are not paid when due shall be included in Account 7500, Interest and related items.

(g) When land is purchased for immediate use in a construction project, its cost shall be included in Account 2003, Telecommunications plant under construction, until such time as the project involved is completed and ready for service.

(h) The original cost of leaseholds, easements, rights of way, and similar rights in land having a term of more than one year and not includable in Account 2111 shall be included in the accounts for outside plant or externally mounted central office equipment in connection with which the rights were acquired.

