(a) This account shall include the original cost of station apparatus, including teletypewriter equipment, telephone and miscellaneous equipment, small private branch exchanges and radio equipment (excluding mobile), installed for customer's use. Items included in this account shall remain herein until finally disposed of or until used in such manner as to warrant inclusion in other accounts.

(b) Each company shall prepare a list of station apparatus which shall be used as its list of disposition units for this account, the cost of which when finally disposed of shall be credited to this account and charged to Account 3100, Accumulated Depreciation.

(c) The cost of cross-connection boxes, distributing frames or other distribution points which are installed to terminate intrabuilding network cable shall be charged to Account 2426, Intrabuilding Network Cable.

(d) Operator head sets and transmitters in central offices and at private branch exchanges, and test sets such as those used by wire chiefs, outside plant technicians, and others, shall be included in Account 2114, Tools and other work equipment, Account 2220, Operator systems, or Account 2341, Large Private Branch Exchanges, as appropriate.

(e) Station apparatus for company official use shall be included in Account 2123, Office Equipment.

(f) Periodic asset verification, as prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles, shall be taken of all station apparatus in stock that are included in this account. The number of such station apparatus items as determined by this verification together with the number of all other station apparatus items included in this account, shall be compared with the corresponding number of station apparatus items as shown by the respective control records. The original cost of any unreconciled differences thereby disclosed shall be adjusted through Account 3100, Accumulated Depreciation. Appropriate verifications shall be made at suitable intervals and necessary adjustments between this account and Account 3100 shall be made for all station apparatus included in this account.

(g) Items of station apparatus in stock for which no further use in the ordinary conduct of the business is contemplated, but which as a precautionary measure are held for possible future contingencies instead of being discarded shall be excluded from this account and included in Account 1220, Inventories.

(h) Embedded CPE is that equipment or inventory which was tariffed or otherwise subject to the jurisdictional separations process as of January 1, 1983.

