(a) This account shall include the balance of income tax expense resulting from comprehensive interpreted tax allocation which has been deferred to later periods.

(b) As other assets or liabilities which generated the deferred income tax are reclassified from long-term or noncurrent status to current, the appropriate deferred income tax shall be reclassified from Account 4350, Net Noncurrent Deferred Nonoperating Income Taxes, to this account.

(c) This account shall be debited or credited with the amount being credited or debited to Account 7400, Nonoperating taxes, in accordance with that account's description and ยง 32.22.

(d) This account shall also include the balance of the income taxes (Federal, state and local) related to current extraordinary items which have been deferred to later periods resulting from comprehensive interperiod tax allocation.

(e) As the extraordinary item which generated the deferred income tax becomes current, the appropriate deferred income tax shall be reclassified from Account 4350, Net Noncurrent Deferred Nonoperating Income Taxes, to this account.

(f) This account shall be debited or credited with the amount being credited and debited to Account 7600, Extraordinary Items.
              

(g) The classification of deferred income taxes as current or noncurrent shall follow the classification of the asset or liability that gave rise to deferred income tax. If there is no related asset or liability, classification shall be based on the expected turnaround of the temporary differences.

(h) Subsidiary record categories shall be maintained in order that the company may separately report the amounts contained herein that are property related and those that are nonproperty related. Such subsidiary record categories shall be reported as required by part 43 of this Commission's Rules and Regulations.

