(a) This account shall include the balance of income tax expense (Federal, state, and local) that has been deferred to later periods as a result of comprehensive interperiod allocation related to nonoperating differences.

(b) This account shall be credited or debited, as appropriate, and Account 7400, Nonoperating Taxes, shall reflect the offset for the tax effect of revenues from other operations and extraordinary items and nonoperating expenses which have been included in the determination of taxable income, but which will not be included in the determination of book income or for the tax effect of nonoperating expenses and extraordinary items and nonoperating income which have been included in the determination of book income prior to the inclusion in the determination of taxable income.

(c) As other assets or liabilities which generated the prepaid income tax or deferred income tax are reclassified from long-term or non-current status to current status, the appropriate deferred income tax shall be reclassified from this account to account 4110, Net Current Deferred Nonoperating Income Taxes.

(d) This account shall also include the balance of the income tax effect (Federal, State and local) related to noncurrent extraordinary items which have been included in the determination of taxable income in a period different from when it is included in the determination of book income, that is, more than one year.

(e) This account shall be charged or credited with the contra amount recorded to Account 7600, Extraordinary items, in accordance with ยง 32.22.

(f) As the extraordinary item which generated the deferred income tax becomes current, the appropriate deferred income tax shall be reclassified from this account to Account 4110, Net Current Deferred Nonoperating Income Taxes.

(g) The classification of deferred income taxes as current or noncurrent shall follow the classification of the asset or liability that gave rise to the deferred income tax. If there is no related asset or liability, classification shall be based on the expected turnaround of the temporary difference.

(h) Subsidiary record categories shall be maintained in order that the company may separately report the amounts contained herein that are property related and those that are nonproperty related. Such subsidiary record categories shall be reported as required by part 43 of this Commission's Rules and Regulations.

