(a) This account shall include:

(1) The total face amount of unmatured debt maturing more than one year from date of issue, issued by the company and not retired, and the total face amount of similar unmatured debt of other companies, the payment of which has been assumed by the company, including funded debt the maturity of which has been extended by specific agreement. This account shall also include such items as mortgage bonds, collateral trust bonds, income bonds, convertible debt, debt securities with detachable warrants and other similar obligations maturing more than one year from date of issue.

(2) The premium associated with all classes of long-term debt. Premium, as applied to securities issued or assumed by the company, means the excess of the current money value received at their sale over the sum of their book or face amount and interest or dividends accrued at the date of the sale.

(3) The discount associated with all classes of long-term debt. Discount, as applied to securities issued or assumed by the company, means the excess of the book or face amount of the securities plus interest or dividends accrued at the date of the sale over the current money value of the consideration received at their sale.

(4) The face amount of debt reacquired prior to maturity that has not been retired. Gain or loss shall be recognized at the time of reacquisition by credits or charges to Account 7300, Nonoperating income and expense, except that material gains or losses shall be treated as extraordinary. (See Account 7600, Extraordinary items.)

(5) The noncurrent portion of obligations applicable to property obtained under capital leases. Amounts subject to current settlement shall be included in Account 4130, Other current liabilities.
              

(6) The amount of advance from affiliated companies. Amounts due affiliated companies which are subject to current settlement shall be included in Account 4000.

(7) Investment advances, including those represented by notes.

(8) Long-term debt not provided for elsewhere.

(b) Subsidiary records shall be maintained for each issue. The subsidiary records shall identify the premium or discount attributable to each issue.

(c) Premiums and discounts on long-term debt recorded in this account shall be amortized monthly by the interest method and charged or credited, as appropriate, to Account 7500, Interest and related items.

(d) Debt securities with detachable warrants shall be accounted for in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

(e) Securities maturing in one year or less, including securities maturing serially, shall be included in Account 4130, Other current liabilities.

