This account shall include:

(a) Revenue from the provision of secondary features which are integrated with the telecommunications network such as call forwarding, call waiting and touch-tone line service. Also included is revenue derived from the provision of public announcement and other record message services, directory assistance and other call completion services (excluding operator assisted basic long distance calls), as well as revenue derived from central office related service connection and termination charges, and other non-premise customer specific charges associated with public network services. This account shall also include local revenue not provided for in other accounts.

(b) Charges and credits resulting from contractual revenue pooling and/or sharing agreements for tariffed local network services only when they are not separately identifiable by local network services revenue accounts in the settlement process. (See also ยง 32.4999(e)). To the extent that the charges and credits resulting from a settlement process can be identified by Local Network Services Revenue account they shall be recorded in the applicable account.

(c) Revenue derived from tariffed information origination/termination plant. Included is revenue derived from the provision under leasing arrangements of tariffed customer premises equipment (CPE), terminal equipment, station apparatus and large private branch exchanges as well as tariffed nonrecurring charges related solely to station apparatus. Also included are all tariffed charges for customer premises activities and facilities not related solely to station apparatus.

