This account shall include revenue derived from the following sources. For Class B companies, this account shall also include revenue of the type and character required of Class A companies in Account 5230, Directory revenue.

(a) Rental or subrental to others of telecommunications plant furnished apart from telecommunications services rendered by the company (this revenue includes taxes when borne by the lessee). It includes revenue from the rent of such items as space in conduit, pole line space for attachments, and any allowance for return on property used in joint operations and shared facilities agreements. The expense of maintaining and operating the rented property, including depreciation and insurance, shall be included in the appropriate operating expense accounts. Taxes applicable to the rented property shall be included by the owner of the rented property in appropriate tax accounts. When land or buildings are rented on an incidental basis for non-telecommunications use, the rental and expenses are included in Account 7300, Nonoperating income and expense.

(b) Services rendered to other companies under a license agreement, general services contract, or other arrangement providing for the furnishing of general accounting, financial, legal, patent, and other general services associated with the provision of regulated telecommunications services. (See also Account 5230.)

(c) The provision, either under tariff or through contractual arrangements, of special billing information to customers in the form of magnetic tapes, cards or statements. Special billing information provides detail in a format and/or at a level of detail not normally provided in the standard billing rendered for the regulated telephone services utilized by the customer.

(d) The performance of customer operations services for others incident to the company's regulated telecommunications operations which are not provided for elsewhere. (See also §§ 32.14(e) and 32.4999(e)).

(e) Contract services (plant maintenance) performed for others incident to the company's regulated telecommunications operations. This includes revenue from the incidental performance of nontariffed operating and maintenance activities for others which are similar in nature to those activities which are performed by the company in operating and maintaining its own telecommunications plant facilities. The records supporting the entries in this account shall be maintained with sufficient particularity to identify the revenue and associated Plant Specific Operations Expenses related to each undertaking. This account does not include revenue related to the performance of operation or maintenance activities under a joint operating agreement.

(f) The provision of billing and collection services to other telecommunications companies. This includes amounts charged for services such as message recording, billing, collection, billing analysis, and billing information services, whether rendered under tariff or contractual arrangements.

(g) Charges and credits resulting from contractual revenue pooling and/or sharing agreements for activities included in the miscellaneous revenue accounts only when they are not identifiable by miscellaneous revenue account in the settlement process. (See also § 32.4999(e)). The extent that the charges and credits resulting from a settlement process can be identified by miscellaneous revenue accounts they shall be recorded in the applicable account.

(h) The provision of transport and termination of local telecommunications traffic pursuant to section 251(c) of the Communications Act and part 51 of this chapter.

(i) The provision of unbundled network elements pursuant to section 251(c) of the Communications Act and part 51 of this chapter.

(j) This account shall also include other incidental regulated revenue such as:

(1) Collection overages (collection shortages shall be charged to Account 6623, Customer services);

(2) Unclaimed refunds for telecommunications services when not subject to escheats;

(3) Charges (penalties) imposed by the company for customer checks returned for non-payment;

(4) Discounts allowed customers for prompt payment;

(5) Late-payment charges;

(6) Revenue from private mobile telephone services which do not have access to the public switched network; and

(7) Other incidental revenue not provided for elsewhere in other Revenue accounts.

(k) Any definitely known amounts of losses of revenue collections due to fire or theft, at customers' coin-box stations, at public or semipublic telephone stations, in the possession of collectors en route to collection offices, on hand at collection offices, and between collection offices and banks shall be charged to Account 6720, General and Administrative.

