This account shall include revenue derived from message services that terminate beyond the basic service area of the originating wire center and are individually priced. This includes those message services which utilize the public long distance switching network and the basic subscriber access line. It also includes those long distance calls placed from mobile and public telephones, as well as any charges for operator assistance or special billing directly related to the completion of a specific call. This account shall also include revenue derived from individually priced message services offered under calling plans (discounted long distance) which do not utilize dedicated access lines, as well as those priced at the basic long distance rates where a discounted toll charge is on a per message basis. Any revenue derived from monthly or one-time charges for obtaining calling plan services shall be included in this account. This account includes revenue derived from the following services:

(a) Long distance services which permit unidirectional calls to a subscriber from specified services areas (multipoint-to-point service). These calls require the use of dedicated access lines connecting a subscriber's premises and a designated central office. These dedicated access lines are generally separate from those required for the subscriber to place outward calls. The call is billed to the subscriber even though it is generally initiated by the subscriber's customer or correspondent.

(b) Long distance services which permit the subscriber to place telephone calls from one location to other specified service areas (point-to-multipoint service). These calls are completed without operator assistance and require the use of a dedicated access line. The dedicated access line is generally separate from those required for inward message services and cannot be used to place calls within the basic service area or calls outside the selected service areas. Outward calls are screened and blocked to determine whether the calls are within an authorized service area.

(c) Services extending beyond the basic service area that involve dedicated circuits, private switching arrangements, and/or predefined transmission paths, whether virtual or physical, which provide communications between specific locations (e.g., point-to-point communications). Service connection charges, termination charges, rearrangements and changes, etc., shall be included in this account. Revenue derived from associated administrative and operational support services shall also be included in this account.

(1) Narrow-band analog private network circuits and facilities furnished exclusively for record forms of communications, such as teletypewriter, teletypesetter, telewriter, ticker, Morse, signaling, remote metering, and supervisory services.

(2) Private network circuits and facilities (including multipurpose wide-band) which provide voice grade services for the transmission of analog signals. It includes revenue from services such as voice, data and telephoto communication, as well as remote metering, supervisory control, miscellaneous signaling and channels furnished for the purpose of extending customer—provided communications systems. It includes revenue from the provision of facilities between customer premises and a serving office, a carrier distribution point, or an extension distribution channel.

(3) Private network circuits and facilities furnished for audio program transmission purposes, such as radio broadcasting, sound recording (wired music) and loud speaker services. It includes revenue from the provision of facilities for the transmission of analog signals between customer premises and a serving office, a carrier distribution point, or an extension distribution channel furnished in connection with such services. It also includes revenue from facilities furnished to carry the audio portion of a television program if furnished under separate audio rates. If the rate for television program services includes both the picture and sound portion of the transmission, the revenue shall also be included in this account.

(4) Private network circuits and facilities furnished for television program transmission purposes, such as commercial broadcast and educational or private television services. It includes revenue from the provision of facilities for the transmission of analog signals between customer premises and a serving office, a carrier distribution point, or an extension distribution channel furnished in connection with such services. It also includes revenue from both the picture and sound portions of transmission for television program service when provided under a combined rate schedule.

(5) The provision of circuits and facilities for the transmission of digital signals only.

(6) The provision of common user channels and switching capabilities used for the transmission of telecommunication signals between three (3) or more points in the network. Also included is revenue derived from the provision of basic switching and transfer arrangements used to connect private line channels.

(7) Charges and credits resulting from contractual revenue pooling and/or sharing agreements for tariffed long distance public network services and for tariffed long distance private network services.

