(a) Structure of the expense accounts. (1) The expense section of the system of accounts shall be organized by expense group summary account, and subsidiary record category (if required).

(2) The expense section of this system of accounts shall be comprised of four major expense groups—Plant Specific Operations, Plant Nonspecific Operations, Customer Operations and Corporate Operations. Expenses to be recorded in Plant Specific and Plant Nonspecific Operations Expense Groups generally reflect cost associated with the various kinds of equipment identified in the plant asset accounts. Expenses to be recorded in the Customer Operations and Corporate Operations accounts reflect the costs of, or are associated with, functions performed by people, irrespective of the organization in which any particular function is performed.

(3) Accounts shall be maintained as prescribed in this section subject to the conditions described in § 32.13 in subpart B. Subsidiary record categories may be required below the account level by this system of accounts or by Commission order.

(b) Plant Specific Operations Expense. (1) The Plant Specific Operations Expense Accounts, 6110 through 6441, are used to record costs related to specific kinds of telecommunications plant.

(2) The Plant Specific Operations Expense accounts predominantly mirror the telecommunications plant in service detail accounts and are numbered consistently with them; the first digit of the expense account being six (6) and the remaining digits being the same as the last three numbers of the related plant account. In classifying Plant Specific Operations expenses, the text of the corresponding plant account should be consulted to ensure appropriateness.

(3) The Plant Specific Operations Expense accounts shall include the costs of inspecting, testing (except as specified in Account 6533, Testing Expense) and reporting on the condition of telecommunications plant to determine the need for repairs, replacements, rearrangements and changes; performing routine work to prevent trouble (except as specified in Account 6533), replacing items of plant other than retirement units; rearranging and changing the location of plant not retired; repairing material for reuse; restoring the condition of plant damaged by storms, floods, fire or other casualties (other than the cost of replacing retirement units); inspecting after repairs have been made; and receiving training to perform these kinds of work. Also included are the costs of direct supervision (immediate of first-level) and office support of this work.

(4) In addition to the activities specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the appropriate Plant Specific Operations Expense accounts shall include the cost of personnel whose principal job is the operation of plant equipment, such as general purpose computer operators, aircraft pilots, chauffeurs and shuttle bus drivers. However, when the operation of equipment is performed as part of other identifiable functions (such as the use of office equipment, capital tools or motor vehicles), the operators' cost shall be charged to accounts appropriate for those functions. (For costs of operator services personnel, see Accounts 6621, Call completion services, and 6622, Number services, and for costs of test board personnel see Account 6533.)

(c) Plant nonspecific operations expense. The Plant Nonspecific Operations Expense accounts shall include expenses related to property held for future telecommunications use, provisioning expenses, network operations expenses, and depreciation and amortization expenses. Accounts in this group (except for Account 6540, Access expense, and Accounts 6560 through 6565) shall include the costs of performing activities described in narratives for individual accounts. These costs shall also include the costs of supervision and office support of these activities.

(d) Customer Operations Expense. The Customer Operations Expense accounts shall include the cost of performing customer related marketing and services activities described in narratives for individual accounts. These costs shall also include the costs of supervision, office support and training for these activities.

(e) Corporate Operations Expense. The Corporate Operations Expense accounts shall include the costs of performing executive and planning activities and general and administrative activities described in narratives for individual accounts. These costs shall also include the costs of supervision, office support and training for these activities.

(f) Reimbursements. Reimbursements of actual costs incurred in connection with joint operations or projects repairing plant due to damages by others, and obligations to make changes in telecommunications plant (such as highway relocations), shall be credited to the accounts originally charged.

(g) Expense accounts to be maintained.

