This account shall include taxes arising from activities which are not a part of the central operations of the entity.

(a) This account shall be charged and Account 4330, Unamortized nonoperating investment tax credits—net, shall be credited with investment tax credits generated from qualified expenditures related to other operations which the company has elected to defer rather than recognize currently in income.

(b) This account shall be credited and Account 4330 shall be charged with the amortization of each year's investment tax credits included in such accounts relating to amortization of previously deferred investment tax credits of other property or regulated property, the amortization of which does not serve to reduce costs of service (but the unamortized balance does reduce rate base) for ratemaking purposes. Such amortization shall be determined with reference to the period of time used for computing book depreciation on the property with respect to which the tax credits relate.

(c) This account shall be charged and Account 4070, Income taxes—accrued, shall be credited for the amount of nonoperating Federal income taxes and state and local income taxes for the current period. This account shall also reflect subsequent adjustments to amounts previously charged.

(d) Taxes shall be accrued each month on an estimated basis and adjustments made as more current data becomes available.

(e) Companies that adopt the flow-through method of accounting for investment tax credits shall reduce the calculated provision in this account by the entire amount of the credit realized during the year. Tax credits, other than investment tax credits, if normalized, shall be recorded consistent with the accounting for investment tax credits.

(f) No entries shall be made to this account to reflect interperiod tax allocation.

(g) Taxes (both Federal and state) shall be accrued each month on an estimated basis and adjustments made as later data becomes available.

(h) This account shall be charged and Account 4080, Other taxes—accrued, shall be credited for all nonoperating taxes, other than Federal, state and local income taxes, and payroll related taxes for the current period. Among the items includable in this account are property, gross receipts, franchise and capital stock taxes. This account shall also reflect subsequent adjustments to amounts previously charged.

(i) This account shall be charged or credited, as appropriate, with contra entries recorded to the following accounts for nonoperating tax expenses that has been deferred in accordance with § 32.22: 4110 Net Current Deferred Nonoperating Income Taxes, 4350 Net Noncurrent Deferred Nonoperating Income Taxes.

(j) Subsidiary record categories shall be maintained to distinguish between property and nonproperty related deferrals and so that the company may separately report the amounts contained herein that relate to Federal, state and local income taxes. Such subsidiary record categories shall be reported as required by part 43 of this chapter.

