This account shall be used to record the results of transactions, events or circumstances during the periods which are incidental or peripheral to the major or central operations of the company. It shall be used to record all items of an operating nature such as incidental work performed for others not provided for elsewhere. Whenever practicable the inflows and outflows associated with a transaction, event or circumstances shall be matched and the result shown as a net gain or loss. This account shall include the following:
              

(a) Profits realized from custom work (plant construction) performed for others incident to the company's regulated telecommunications operations. This includes profits from the incidental performance of nontariffed construction activities (including associated engineering and design) for others which are similar in nature to those activities which are performed by the company in constructing its own telecommunications plant facilities. The records supporting the entries in this account for income and custom work shall be maintained with sufficient particularity to identify separately the revenue and costs associated with each undertaking.

(b) Return on investment for the use of regulated property plant and equipment to provide nonregulated products and services.

(c) All gains and losses resulting from the exchange of foreign currency. Transaction (realized) gains or losses shall be measured based on the exchange rate in effect on the transaction date. Unrealized gains or losses shall be measured based on the exchange rate in effect at the balance sheet date.

(d) Gains or losses resulting from the disposition of land or artworks.

(e) Charges or credits, as appropriate, to record the results of transactions, events or circumstances which are of an operational nature, but occur irregularly or are peripheral to the major or central operations of the company and not provided for elsewhere.

