(a) C&WF are basically divided between exchange and interexchange. Exchange C&WF consists of the following categories:

(1) Exchange Line C&WF Excluding Wideband—Category 1—This category includes C&W facilities between local central offices and subscriber premises used for message telephone, private line, local channels, and for circuits between control terminals and radio stations providing very high frequency maritime service or urban or highway mobile service.
                

(2) Wideband and Exchange Trunk C&WF—Category 2—This category includes all wideband, including Exchange Line Wideband and C&WF between local central offices and Wideband facilities. It also includes C&WF between central offices or other switching points used by any common carrier for interlocal trunks wholly within an exchange or metropolitan service area, interlocal trunks with one or both terminals outside a metropolitan service area carrying some exchange traffic, toll connecting trunks, tandem trunks principally carrying exchange traffic, the exchange trunk portion of WATS access lines, the exchange trunk portion of private line local channels, and the exchange trunk portion of circuits between control terminals and radio stations providing very high frequency maritime service or urban or highway mobile service.

(3) The procedures for apportioning the cost of exchange cable and wire facilites among the operations are set forth in §§ 36.154 and 36.155.

(b) Interexchange C&WF—Category 3—This category includes the C&WF used for message toll and toll private line services. It includes cable and wire facilities carrying intertoll circuits, tributary circuits, the interexchange channel portion of special service circuits, circuits between control terminals and radio stations used for overseas or coastal harbor service, interlocal trunks between offices in the different exchange or metropolitan service areas carrying only message toll traffic and certain tandem trunks which carry principally message toll traffic.

(1) The procedures for apportioning the cost of interexchange cable and wire facilities among the operations are set forth in § 36.156.

(c) Host/Remote Message C&WF—Category 4—This category includes the cost of message host/remote location C&WF for which a message circuit switching function is performed at the host central office. It applies to C&WF between host offices and all remote locations. The procedures for apportioning the cost of these facilities among the operations are set forth in § 36.157.

(d) Effective July 1, 2001, through June 30, 2014, study areas subject to price cap regulation, pursuant to § 61.41, shall assign the average balance of Account 2410 to the categories/subcategories, as specified in §§ 36.152(a) through (c), based on the relative percentage assignment of the average balance of Account 2410 to these categories/subcategories during the twelve month period ending December 31, 2000.

