(a) Cable consists of: Aerial cable, underground cable, buried cable, submarine cable, deep sea cable and intrabuilding network cable. Where an entire cable or aerial wire is assignable to one category, its cost and quantity are, where practicable, directly assigned.

(1) Cable. (i) There are two basic methods for assigning the cost of cable to the various categories. Both of them are on the basis of conductor cross section. The methods are as follows:

(A) By section of cable, uniform as to makeup and relative use by categories. From an analysis of cable engineering and assignment records, determine in terms of equivalent gauge the number of pairs in use or reserved, for each category. The corresponding percentages of use, or reservation, are applied to the cost of the section of cable, i.e., sheath meters times unit cost per meter, to obtain the cost assignable to each category.

(B) By using equivalent pair kilometers, i.e., pair kilometers expressed in terms of equivalent gauge. From an analysis of cable engineering and assignment records, determine the equivalent pair kilometers in use for each category by type of facility, e.g., quadded, paired. The equivalent pair kilometers are then divided by a cable fill factor to obtain the equivalent pair kilometers in plant. The total equivalent pair kilometers in plant assigned to each category is summarized by type of facility, e.g., quadded and paired, and priced at appropriate average unit costs per equivalent pair kilometer in plant. If desired, this study may be made in terms of circuit kilometers rather than physical pair kilometers, with average cost and fill data consistent with the basis of the facilities kilometer count.

(ii) In the assignment of the cost of cable under the two basic methods described in ยง 36.153(a)(1)(i) consideration is given to the following:

(A) Method (A) described in ยง 36.153(a)(1)(i)(A) will probably be found more desirable where there is a relatively small amount of cable of variable make-up and use by categories. Conversely, method (B) described in ยง 36.153(a)(1)(i)(B) will probably be more desirable where there is a large amount of cable of variable make-up and use by categories. However, in some cases a combination of both methods may be desirable.

(B) It will be desirable in some cases to determine the amount assignable to a particular category by deducting from the total the sum of the amounts assigned to all other categories.

(C) For use in the assignment of poles to categories, the equivalent sheath kilometers of aerial cable assigned to each category are determined. For convenience, these quantities are determined in connection with assignment of cable costs.

(D) Where an entire cable is assignable to one category, its costs and quantity are, where practicable, directly assigned.

(iii) For cables especially arranged for high-frequency transmission such as shielded, disc-insulated and coaxial, recognition is given to the additional costs which are charged to the high-frequency complement.

(2) Cable Loading. (i) Methods for assigning the cost of loading coils, cases, etc., to categories are comparable with those used in assigning the associated cable to categories. Loading associated with cable which is directly assigned to a given category is also directly assigned. The remaining loading is assigned to categories in either of the following bases:

(A) By an analysis of the use made of the loading facilities where a loading coil case includes coils assignable to more than one category, e.g., in the case of a single gauge uniformly loaded section, the percentage used in the related cable assignment are applicable, or

(B) By pricing out each category by determining the pair meters of loaded pairs assigned to each category and multiplying by the unit cost per pair meter of loading by type.

(3) Other Cable Plant. (i) In view of the small amounts involved, the cost of all protected terminals and gas pressure contactor terminals in the toll cable subaccounts is assigned to the appropriate Interexchange Cable & Wire Facilities categories. The cost of all other terminals in the exchange and toll cable subaccounts is assigned to Exchange Cable and Wire Facilities.

(b) Aerial Wire. (1) The cost of wire accounted for as exchange is assigned to the appropriate Exchange Cable & Wire Facilities categories. The cost of wire accounted for as toll, which is used for exchange, is also assigned to the appropriate Exchange Cable & Wire Facilities categories. The cost of the remaining wire accounted for as toll is assigned to the appropriate Interexchange Cable & Wire Facilities categories as described in ยง 36.156. For companies not maintaining exchange and toll subaccounts, it is necessary to review the plant records and identify wire plant by use. The cost of wire used for providing circuits directly assignable to a category is assigned to that category. The cost of wire used for providing circuit facilities jointly used for exchange and interexchange lines is assigned to categories on the basis of the relative number of circuit kilometers involved.

(c) Poles and Antenna Supporting Structures. (1) In the assignment of these costs, anchors, guys, crossarms, antenna supporting structure, and right-of-way are included with the poles.

(2) Poles. (i) The cost of poles is assigned to categories based on the ratio of the cost of poles to the total cost of aerial wire and aerial cable.
                

(d) Conduit Systems. (1) The cost of conduit systems is assigned to categories on the basis of the assignment of the cost of underground cable.

