(a) Effective July 1, 2001, through June 30, 2014, all local exchange carriers subject to part 36 rules shall apportion costs to the jurisdictions using their study area and/or exchange specific jurisdictional allocation factors calculated during the twelve month period ending December 31, 2000, for each of the categories/sub-categories as specified herein. Direct assignment of private line service costs between jurisdictions shall be updated annually. Other direct assignment of investment, expenses, revenues or taxes between jurisdictions shall be updated annually. Local exchange carriers that invest in telecommunications plant categories during the period July 1, 2001, through June 30, 2014, for which it had no separations allocation factors for the twelve month period ending December 31, 2000, shall apportion that investment among the jurisdictions in accordance with the separations procedures in effect as of December 31, 2000 for the duration of the freeze.

(b) Effective July 1, 2001, through June 30, 2014, local exchange carriers subject to price cap regulation, pursuant to § 61.41, shall assign costs from the part 32 accounts to the separations categories/sub-categories, as specified herein, based on the percentage relationships of the categorized/sub-categorized costs to their associated part 32 accounts for the twelve month period ending December 31, 2000. If a part 32 account for separations purposes is categorized into more than one category, the percentage relationship among the categories shall be utilized as well. Local exchange carriers that invest in types of telecommunications plant during the period July 1, 2001, through June 30, 2014, for which it had no separations category investment for the twelve month period ending December 31, 2000, shall assign such investment to separations categories in accordance with the separations procedures in effect as of December 31, 2000. Local exchange carriers not subject to price cap regulation, pursuant to § 61.41 of this chapter, may elect to be subject to the provisions of § 36.3(b). Such election must be made prior to July 1, 2001. Local exchange carriers electing to become subject to § 36.3(b) shall not be eligible to withdraw from such regulation for the duration of the freeze. Local exchange carriers participating in Association tariffs, pursuant to § 69.601 of this chapter et seq., shall notify the Association prior to July 1, 2001, of such intent to be subject to the provisions of § 36.3(b). Local exchange carriers not participating in Association tariffs shall notify the Commission prior to July 1, 2001, of such intent to be subject to the provisions of § 36.3(b).

(c) Effective July 1, 2001, through June 30, 2014, any local exchange carrier that sells or otherwise transfers exchanges, or parts thereof, to another carrier's study area shall continue to utilize the factors and, if applicable, category relationships as specified in §§ 36.3(a) and (b).

(d) Effective July 1, 2001, through June 30, 2014, any local exchange carrier that buys or otherwise acquires exchanges or part thereof, shall calculate new, composite factors and, if applicable, category relationships based on a weighted average of both the seller's and purchaser's factors and category relationships calculated pursuant to §§ 36.3(a) and 36.3(b). This weighted average should be based on the number of access lines currently being served by the acquiring carrier and the number of access lines in the acquired exchanges.

(1) To compute the composite allocation factors and, if applicable, the composite category percentage relationships of the acquiring company, the acquiring carrier shall first sum its existing (pre-purchase) access lines (A) with the total access lines acquired from selling company (B). Then, multiply its factors and category relationship percentages by (A/(A+B)) and those of the selling company by (B/(A+B)) and sum the results.

(2) For carriers subject to a freeze of category relationships, the acquiring carrier should remove all categories of investment from the selling carrier's list of frozen category relationships where no such category investment exists within the sold exchange(s). The seller's remaining category relationships must then be increased proportionately to total 100 percent. Then, the adjusted seller's category relationships must be combined with those of the acquiring carrier as specified in § 36.3(d)(1) to determine the category relationships for the acquiring carrier's post-transfer study area.

(e) Any local exchange carrier study area converting from average schedule company status, as defined in § 69.605(c) of this chapter, to cost company status during the period July 1, 2001, through June 30, 2014, shall, for the first twelve months subsequent to conversion categorize the telecommunications plant and expenses and develop separations allocation factors in accordance with the separations procedures in effect as of December 31, 2000. Effective July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2014, such companies shall utilize the separations allocation factors and account categorization subject to the requirements of §§ 36.3(a) and (b) based on the category relationships and allocation factors for the twelve months subsequent to the conversion to cost company status.

