(a) For apportionment purposes, the expenses in this account are segregated into two groups as follows: (1) Operating Federal, State and local income taxes and (2) all other operating taxes.

(b) Operating Federal, State and local income taxes are apportioned among the operations on the basis of the approximate net taxable income (positive or negative) applicable to each of the operations. The approximate net taxable income from each of the operations is the summation of the following amounts apportioned to each operation by means of the procedures set forth in this Manual:

(1) Operating revenues,

(2) Less operating expenses,

(3) Less operating taxes except the net income tax being apportioned and except any other tax not treated as a deductible item in the determination of taxable net income for this purpose.

(4) Less operating fixed charges.

(i) The amount of fixed charges attributable to the operations is obtained by subtracting the tax component (positive or negative) attributable to other than the operating fixed charges, i.e., fixed charges on non-operating investments are that proportion of total fixed charges which non-operating net investments are of total operating and non-operating net investments.

(ii) Operating fixed charges including interest on Rural Telephone Bank Stock are apportioned among the operations on the basis of the separation of the cost of telephone plant less appropriate reserves.

(c) Other operating taxes should be directly assigned to the appropriate jurisdiction where possible, e.g., Local Gross Receipts may be directly identified as applicable to one jurisdiction. Where direct assignment is not feasible, these expenses should be apportioned among the operations on the basis of the separation of the cost of Telecommunications Plant in Service—Account 2001.

