In order to allow determination of the study areas and wire centers that are entitled to an expense adjustment pursuant to ยง 36.631, each incumbent local exchange carrier (LEC) must provide the National Exchange Carrier Association (NECA) (established pursuant to part 69 of this chapter) with the information listed for each study area in which such incumbent LEC operates, with the exception of the information listed in paragraph (h) of this section, which must be provided for each study area and, if applicable, for each wire center, as defined in part 54 of this chapter, and each disaggregation zone as established pursuant to ยง 54.315 of this chapter. This information is to be filed with NECA by July 31st of each year. The information provided pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section must be updated pursuant to ยง 36.612. Rural telephone companies that acquired exchanges subsequent to May 7, 1997, and incorporated those acquired exchanges into existing study areas shall separately provide the information required by paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section for both the acquired and existing exchanges.

(a) Unseparated, i.e., state and interstate, gross plant investment in Exchange Line Cable and Wire Facilities (C&WF) Subcategory 1.3 and Exchange Line Central Office (CO) Circuit Equipment Category 4.13. This amount shall be calculated as of December 31st of the calendar year preceding each July 31st filing.

(b) Unseparated accumulated depreciation and noncurrent deferred federal income taxes, attributable to Exchange Line C&WF Subcategory 1.3 investment, and Exchange Line CO Circuit Equipment Category 4.13 investment. These amounts shall be calculated as of December 31st of the calendar year preceding each July 31st filing, and shall be stated separately.

(c) Unseparated depreciation expense attributable to Exchange Line C&WF Subcategory 1.3 investment, and Exchange Line CO Circuit Equipment Category 4.13 investment. This amount shall be the actual depreciation expense for the calendar year preceding each July 31st filing.

(d) Unseparated maintenance expense attributable to Exchange Line C&WF Subcategory 1.3 investment and Exchange Line CO Circuit Equipment Category 4.113 investment. This amount shall be the actual repair expense for the calendar year preceding each July 31st filing.

(e) Unseparated corporate operations expenses, operating taxes, and the benefits and rent proportions of operating expenses. The amount for each of these categories of expense shall be the actual amount for that expense for the calendar year preceding each July 31st filing. The amount for each category of expense listed shall be stated separately.

(f) Unseparated gross telecommunications plant investment. This amount shall be calculated as of December 31st of the calendar year preceding each July 31st filing.

(g) Unseparated accumulated depreciation and noncurrent deferred federal income taxes attributable to local unseparated telecommunications plant investment. This amount shall be calculated as of December 31st of the calendar year preceding each July 31st filing.

(h) For incumbent local exchange carriers subject to ยง 36.601(a) this subpart, the number of working loops for each study area.  For non-rural telephone companies, the number of working loops for each study area and for each wire center. For universal service support purposes, working loops are defined as the number of working Exchange Line C&WF loops used jointly for exchange and message telecommunications service, including C&WF subscriber lines associated with pay telephones in C&WF Category 1, but excluding WATS closed end access and TWX service. These figures shall be calculated as of December 31st of the calendar year preceding each July 31st filing.

