(a) For the purpose of calculating the expense adjustment, the study area total unseparated loop cost equals the sum of the following:

(1) Return component for net unseparated Exchange Line C&WF subcategory 1.3 investment and Exchange Line CO Circuit Equipment Category 4.13 investment. This amount is calculated by deducting the accumulated depreciation and noncurrent deferred Federal income taxes attributable to C&WF subcategory 1.3 investment and Exchange Line Category 4.13 circuit investment reported pursuant to § 36.611(b) from the gross investment in Exchange Line C&WF subcategory 1.3 and CO Category 4.13 reported pursuant to § 36.611(a) to obtain the net unseparated C&WF subcategory 1.3 investment, and CO Category 4.13 investment. The net unseparated C&WF subcategory 1.3 investment and CO Category 4.13 investment is multiplied by the study area's authorized interstate rate of return.

(2) Depreciation expense attributable to C&WF subcategory 1.3 investment, and CO Category 4.13 investment as reported in § 36.611(c).

(3) Maintenance expense attributable to C&WF subcategory 1.3 investment, and CO Category 4.13 investment as reported in § 36.611(d).

(4) Corporate Operations Expenses, Operating Taxes and the benefits and rent portions of operating expenses, as reported in § 36.611(e) attributable to investment in C&WF Category 1.3 and COE Category 4.13. This amount is calculated by multiplying the total amount of these expenses and taxes by the ratio of the unseparated gross exchange plant investment in C&WF Category 1.3 and COE Category 4.13, as reported in § 36.611(a), to the unseparated gross telecommunications plant investment, as reported in § 36.611(f). Total Corporate Operations Expense, for purposes of calculating universal service support payments beginning July 1, 2001 and ending December 31, 2011, shall be limited to the lesser of § 36.621(a)(4)(i) or (ii). Total Corporate Operations Expense for purposes of calculating universal service support payments beginning January 1, 2012 shall be limited to the lesser of § 36.621(a)(4)(i) or (iii).

(i) The actual average monthly per-loop Corporate Operations Expense; or

(ii) A monthly per-loop amount computed according to paragraphs (a)(4)(ii)(A), (a)(4)(ii)(B), (a)(4)(ii)(C), and (a)(4)(ii)(D) of this section. To the extent that some carriers' corporate operations expenses are disallowed pursuant to these limitations, the national average unseparated cost per loop shall be adjusted accordingly.
                

(A) For study areas with 6,000 or fewer working loops the amount monthly per working loop shall be $33.30853−(.00246 × the number of working loops), or, $50,000 ÷ the number of working loops, whichever is greater;

(B) For study areas with more than 6,000 but fewer than 18,006 working loops, the monthly amount per working loop shall be $3.83195 + (88,429.20 ÷ the number of working loops); and

(C) For study areas with 18,006 or more working loops, the monthly amount per working loop shall be $8.74472.

(D) Beginning January 1, 2002, the monthly per-loop amount computed according to paragraphs (a)(4)(ii)(A), (a)(4)(ii)(B), and (a)(4)(ii)(C) of this section shall be adjusted each year to reflect the annual percentage change in the United States Department of Commerce's Gross Domestic Product-Chained Price Index (GDP-CPI).

(b) [Reserved]

(iii) A monthly per-loop amount computed according to paragraphs (a)(4)(iii)(A), (a)(4)(iii)(B), (a)(4)(iii)(C), and (a)(4)(iii)(D) of this section. To the extent that some carriers' corporate operations expenses are disallowed pursuant to these limitations, the national average unseparated cost per loop shall be adjusted accordingly.

(A) For study areas with 6,000 or fewer total working loops the amount monthly per working loop shall be $42.337 − (.00328 × the number of total working loops), or, $63,000/the number of total working loops, whichever is greater;

(B) For study areas with more than 6,000 but fewer than 17,887 total working loops, the monthly amount per working loop shall be $3.007 + (117,990/the number of total working loops); and

(C) For study areas with 17,887 or more total working loops, the monthly amount per working loop shall be $9.562.

(D) Beginning January 1, 2013, the monthly per-loop amount computed according to paragraphs (a)(4)(iii)(A), (a)(4)(iii)(B), and (a)(4)(iii)(C) of this section shall be adjusted each year to reflect the annual percentage change in the United States Department of Commerce's Gross Domestic Product-Chained Price Index (GDP-CPI).

(5) Study area unseparated loop cost may be limited annually pursuant to a schedule announced by the Wireline Competition Bureau.

