(a) The term Universal Service Fund in this subpart refers only to the support for loop-related costs included in § 36.621. The term Universal Service in part 54 of this chapter refers to the comprehensive discussion of the Commission's rules implementing section 254 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 254, which addresses universal service support for rural, insular, and high cost areas, low-income consumers, schools and libraries, and heath care providers. The expense adjustment calculated pursuant to this subpart F shall be added to interstate expenses and deducted from state expenses after expenses and taxes have been apportioned pursuant to subpart D of this part. Beginning January 1, 1998, the expense adjustment calculated pursuant to this subpart will be administered and funded through the new universal service system discussed in part 54 of this chapter.

(b) The expense adjustment will be computed on the basis of data for a preceding calendar year which may be updated at the option of the carrier pursuant to § 36.612(a).

(c) Until June 30, 2001, the annual amount of the total nationwide expense adjustment shall consist of the amounts calculated pursuant to § 54.309 of this chapter and the amounts calculated pursuant to this subpart F. The annual amount of the total nationwide loop cost expense adjustment calculated pursuant to this subpart F shall not exceed the amount of the total loop cost expense adjustment for the immediately preceding calendar year, increased by a rate equal to the rate of increase in the total number of working loops during the calendar year preceding the July 31st filing. The total loop cost expense adjustment shall consist of the loop cost expense adjustments, including amounts calculated pursuant to § 36.612(a) and § 36.631. The rate of increase in total working loops shall be based upon the difference between the number of total working loops on December 31 of the calendar year preceding the July 31st filing and the number of total working loops on December 31 of the second calendar year preceding that filing, both determined by the company's submissions pursuant to § 36.611. Beginning January 1, 2000, non-rural incumbent local exchange carriers and, eligible telecommunications carriers serving lines in the service area of non-rural incumbent local exchange carriers, shall only receive support pursuant to this subpart F to the extent that they qualify pursuant to § 54.311 of this chapter for interim hold-harmless support. Support amounts calculated pursuant to this subpart F but not received due to the phase down of interim hold-harmless support or the receipt of forward-looking support pursuant to § 54.311 of this chapter shall not be redistributed to other carriers.

