(a) Contents. A State's application for funds for the E-911 grant program must consist of the following components:

(1) State 911 Plan. A plan that details the projects and activities proposed to be funded for the implementation and operation of Phase II E-911 services or migration to an IP-enabled emergency network, establishes metrics and a time table for grant implementation, and describes the steps the State has taken to—

(i) Coordinate its application with local governments, tribal organizations, and PSAPs within the State;

(ii) Ensure that at least 90 percent of the grant funds will be used for the direct benefit of PSAPs and not more than 10 percent of the grant funds will be used for the State's administrative expenses related to the E-911 grant program;

(iii) Give priority to communities without 911 capability as of August 3, 2007 to establish Phase II coverage by identifying the percentage of grant funds designated for those communities or provide an explanation why such designation would not be practicable in successfully accomplishing the purposes of the grant;

(iv) Involve integrated telecommunications services in the implementation and delivery of Phase II E-911 services or for migration to an IP-enabled emergency network; and

(v) Employ the use of technologies to achieve compliance with Phase II E-911 services or for migration to an IP-enabled emergency network.

(2) Project budget. A project budget for all proposed projects and activities to be funded by the grant funds identified for the State in appendix A and matching funds. Specifically, for each project or activity, the State must:

(i) Demonstrate that the project or activity meets the eligible use requirement in § 400.7; and

(ii) Identify the non-Federal sources, which meet the requirements of 49 CFR 18.24, that will fund at least 50 percent of the cost; except that as provided in 48 U.S.C. 1469a, the requirement for non-Federal matching funds (including in-kind contributions) is waived for American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands for grant amounts up to $200,000.

(3) Supplemental project budget. States that meet the qualification requirements for the initial distribution of E-911 grant funds may also qualify for additional grant funds that may become available. To be eligible for any such additional grant funds that may become available in accordance with § 400.6, a State must submit, with its application, a supplemental project budget that identifies the maximum dollar amount the State is able to match from non-Federal sources meeting the requirements of 49 CFR 18.24, and includes projects or activities for those grant and matching amounts, up to the total amount in the project budget submitted under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. This information must be provided to the same level of detail as required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section and be consistent with the State 911 Plan required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(4) Designated E-911 Coordinator. The identification of a single officer or government body to serve as the E-911 Coordinator of implementation of E-911 services and to sign the certifications required under this part. If the State has established by law or regulation an office or coordinator with the authority to manage E-911 services, that office or coordinator must be identified as the designated E-911 Coordinator and apply for the grant on behalf of the State. If the State does not have such an office or coordinator established, the Governor of the State must appoint a single officer or governmental body to serve as the E-911 Coordinator in order to qualify for an E-911 grant. If the designated E-911 Coordinator is a governmental body, an official representative of the governmental body shall be identified to sign the certifications for the E-911 Coordinator. The State must notify NHTSA in writing within 30 days of any change in appointment of the E-911 Coordinator.

(5) Certifications. (i) The certification in appendix B to this part, signed by the E-911 Coordinator, certifying that the State has complied with the required statutory and programmatic conditions in submitting its application. The State must certify that during the time period 180 days preceding the application date, the State has not diverted any portion of designated E-911 charges imposed by the State for any purpose other than the purposes for which such charges are designated, that no taxing jurisdiction in the State that will be a recipient of E-911 grant funds has diverted any portion of designated E-911 charges imposed by the taxing jurisdiction for any purpose other than the purposes for which such charges are designated, and that neither the State nor any taxing jurisdiction in the State that is a recipient of E-911 grant funds will divert designated E-911 charges for any purpose other than the purposes for which such charges are designated throughout the time period during which grant funds are available.

(ii) Submitted on an annual basis 30 days after the end of each fiscal year during which grant funds are available, the certification in appendix C to this part, signed by the E-911 Coordinator, making the same certification as required under paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section concerning the diversion of designated E-911 charges.

(b) Due date. The State must submit the application documents identified in this section so that they are received by the ICO no later than August 4, 2009. Failure to meet this deadline will preclude the State from receiving consideration for an E-911 grant award.

