As used in this part—


            Administrator means the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), U.S. Department of Transportation.


            Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information, U.S. Department of Commerce, and Administrator of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA).


            Designated E-911 charges mean any taxes, fees, or other charges imposed by a State or other taxing jurisdiction that are designated or presented as dedicated to deliver or improve E-911 services.


            E-911 Coordinator means a single officer or governmental body of the State that is responsible for implementing E-911 services in the State.


            E-911 services mean both phase I and phase II enhanced 911 services, as described in 47 CFR 20.18.


            Eligible entity means a State or local government or tribal organization, including public authorities, boards, commissions, and similar bodies created by such governmental entities to provide E-911 services.


            ICO means the National E-911 Implementation Coordination Office established under 47 U.S.C. 942 for the administration of the E-911 grant program, located at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, US Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE., NTI-140, Washington, DC 20590.


            Integrated telecommunications services mean those entities engaged in the provision of multiple services, such as voice, data, image, graphics, and video services, which make common use of all or part of the same transmission facilities, switches, signaling, or control devices.


            IP-enabled emergency network or IP-enabled emergency system means an emergency communications network or system based on a secured infrastructure that allows secured transmission of information, using Internet Protocol, among users of the network or system.


            Phase II E-911 services mean phase II enhanced 911 services, as described in 47 CFR 20.18.


            PSAP means a public safety answering point, a facility that has been designated to receive emergency calls and route them to emergency personnel.


            State includes any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

