(a) The sections in this part include requirements which have been promulgated under authority of sections 211 and 219 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, with respect to the filing by communication common carriers and certain of their affiliates of periodic reports and certain other data, but do not include certain requirements relating to the filing of information with respect to specific services, accounting systems and other matters incorporated in other parts of this chapter.

(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, carriers becoming subject to the provisions of the several sections of this part for the first time, shall, within thirty (30) days of becoming subject, file the required data as set forth in the various sections of this part.

(c) Carriers becoming subject to the provisions of §§ 43.21 and 43.43 for the first time, because their annual operating revenues equal or exceed the indexed revenue threshold for a given year, shall begin collecting data pursuant to such provisions in the calendar year following the publication of that indexed revenue threshold in the Federal Register. With respect to such initial filing of reports by any carrier, pursuant to the provisions of § 43.21 (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), and (k), the carrier is to begin filing data for the calendar year following the publication of that indexed revenue threshold in the Federal Register by April 1 of the second calendar year following publication of that indexed revenue threshold in the Federal Register.

(d) Common carriers subject to the provisions of § 43.11 shall file data semi-annually. Reports shall be filed each year on or before March 1st (reporting data about their deployment of local exchange services as of December 31 of the prior year) and September 1st (reporting data about their deployment of local exchange services as of June 31 of the current year). Common carriers becoming subject to the provisions of § 43.11 for the first time within a calendar year shall file data for the reporting period in which they become eligible and semi-annually thereafter. Common carriers subject to the provisions of § 43.11 shall make an initial filing of the FCC Form 477 on May 15, 2000 (reporting data about their deployment of local exchange services as of December 31, 1999).

