(a) All common carriers and their affiliates (as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(1)) providing telephone exchange or exchange access service (as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(16) and (47)), commercial mobile radio service (CMRS) providers offering mobile telephony (as defined in ยง 20.15(b)(1) of this chapter), and Interconnected Voice over IP service providers (as defined in ยง 9.3 of this chapter), shall file with the Commission a completed FCC Form 477, in accordance with the Commission's rules and the instructions to the FCC Form 477, for each state in which they provide service.

(b) Respondents identified in paragraph (a) of this section shall include in each report a certification signed by an appropriate official of the respondent (as specified in the instructions to FCC Form 477).

(c) Respondents may make requests for Commission non-disclosure of provider-specific data contained in the Form 477 under ยง 0.459 of this chapter by so indicating on the Form 477 at the time that the subject data are submitted. The Commission shall make all decisions regarding non-disclosure of provider-specific information, except that the Chief of the Wireline Competition Bureau may release provider-specific information to a state commission, provided that the state commission has protections in place that would preclude disclosure of any confidential information.

(d) Respondents identified in paragraph (b) of this section shall file a revised version of FCC Form 477 if and when they discover a significant error in their filed FCC Form 477. For counts, a difference amounting to 5 percent of the filed number is considered significant. For percentages, a difference of 5 percentage points is considered significant.

(e) Failure to file FCC Form 477 in accordance with the Commission's rules and the instructions to Form 477 may lead to enforcement action pursuant to the Act and any other applicable law.

