For the purpose of this part, the following definitions shall be applicable. For other definitions, refer to part 2 of this chapter (Frequency Allocations and Radio Treaty Matters; General Rules and Regulations).


                Authorized frequency. The frequency assigned to a station by the Commission and specified in the instrument of authorization.


                Authorized power. The power assigned to a radio station by the Commission and specified in the instrument of authorization.


                Experimental radio service. A service in which radio waves are employed for purposes of experimentation in the radio art or for purposes of providing essential communications for research projects that could not be conducted without the benefit of such communications.


                Experimental station. A station utilizing radio waves in experiments with a view to the development of science or technique.


                Fixed service. A radiocommunication service between specified fixed points.
              


                Fixed station. A station in the fixed service.


                Harmful interference. Any radiation or induction that endangers the functioning of a radionavigation or safety service, or obstructs or repeatedly interrupts a radio service operating in accordance with the Table of Frequency Allocations and other provisions of part 2 of this chapter.


                Landing area. As defined by 49 U.S.C. 40102(a)(28) of the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938, as amended, any locality, either of land or water, including airdromes and intermediate landing fields, that is used, or intended to be used, for the landing and take-off of aircraft, whether or not facilities are provided for the shelter, servicing, or repair of aircraft, or for receiving or discharging passengers or cargo.


                Land station. A station in the mobile service not intended for operation while in motion.


                Mobile service. A radiocommunication service between mobile and land stations, or between mobile stations.


                Mobile station. A station in a mobile service intended to be used while in motion or during halts at unspecified points.


                Person. An individual, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust, or corporation.


                Public correspondence. Any telecommunication that offices and stations, by reason of their being at the disposal of the public, must accept for transmission.


                Radio service. An administrative subdivision of the field of radiocommunication. In an engineering sense, the subdivisions may be made according to the method of operation, as, for example, mobile service and fixed service. In a regulatory sense, the subdivisions may be descriptive of particular groups of licensees, as, for example, the groups of persons licensed under this part.


                Station authorization. Any license or special temporary authorization issued by the Commission.

