(a) Application for experimental radio license. Entities requesting an experimental authorization must submit FCC Form 442 (application). A single FCC Form 442 may be used for several radio components of an experimental program, however, unrelated experimental programs should be filed on separate applications.

(b) Application for modification of experimental license. An application for modification of experimental authorization shall be submitted on FCC Form 442. A blanket application may be submitted for modification of a group of authorizations of the same class as long as the scope of the modifications are specified in the application. The individual authorizations covered by such an application shall be clearly identified therein. However, application for modification to change location of an experimental authorization shall be filed as a separate application.

(c) Application for renewal of experimental authorization. Application for renewal of station license shall be submitted on FCC Form 405. A blanket application may be submitted for renewal of a group of station licenses in the same class in those cases in which the renewal requested is in exact accordance with the terms of the existing authorizations. The individual stations covered by such applications shall be clearly identified thereon. Unless otherwise directed by the Commission, each application for renewal of license shall be filed at least 60 days prior to the expiration date of the license to be renewed.

(d) Application for consent to assign an experimental authorization. Application on FCC Form 702 shall be submitted when the legal right to control the use and operation of a station is to be transferred as a result of a voluntary act (contract or other agreement) or an involuntary act (death or legal disability) of the grantee of a station authorization or by involuntary assignment of the physical property constituting the station under a court decree in bankruptcy proceedings, or other court order, or by operation of law in any other manner. Such application must be accompanied by the FCC Form 442 of which only the certification need be signed by the proposed assignee. No other information is required to be submitted on this form.

(e) Application for consent to transfer control of Corporation holding experimental authorization. Application for consent to transfer control shall be submitted on FCC Form 703 whenever it is proposed to change the control of a corporation holding a station authorization.

