(a) The Commission may issue a special temporary authorization under this part in cases in which a need is shown for operation of a station for six months or less, provided such operation is not in conflict with the Commission's rules in this part. In cases in which an applicant sets forth compelling reasons why a special temporary authorization must be granted expeditiously, preference will be given to processing the application.

(b) Extensions of a special temporary authorization will be granted provided that an application for a regular experimental license has been filed at least 15 days prior to the expiration of the licensee's temporary authority. When such an application is timely filed, operations may continue in accordance with the other terms and conditions of the temporary authority pending disposition of the application, unless the applicant is notified otherwise by the Commission.

(c) An application for special temporary authorization shall be filed electronically through the Office of Engineering and Technology Web site https://gullfoss2.fcc.gov/prod/oet/cf/els/index.cfm effective January 1, 2004 and shall contain the following information:

(1) Name, address, phone number (also e-mail address and facsimile number, if available) of the applicant.

(2) Description of why an STA is needed.
                                    

(3) Description of the operation to be conducted and its purpose.

(4) Time and dates of proposed operation.

(5) Class(es) of station (fixed, mobile, fixed and mobile) and call sign of station (if applicable).

(6) Description of the location(s) and, if applicable, geographical coordinates of the proposed operation.

(7) Equipment to be used, including name of manufacturer, model and number of units.

(8) Frequency(ies) desired.

(9) Maximum effective radiated power (ERP) or equivalent isotrophically radiated power (EIRP).

(10) Emission designator (see ยง 2.201 of this chapter) or describe emission (bandwidth, modulation, etc.)

(11) Overall height of antenna structure above the ground (if greater than 6 meters above the ground or an existing structure, see part 17 of this Chapter concerning notification to the FAA).

