The Commission may issue an authorization to schools or students for the purpose of presenting experiments or technical demonstrations for school or school approved projects that require the use of radio for a limited period of time. Such authorizations may be granted at the discretion of the Commission.

(a) An application for a school or student authorization may be filed in letter form and must comply with the provisions of ยง 5.63, of this part except where specified below. The application must be accompanied by a signed statement from a member of faculty of the school, on appropriate letterhead, indicating the person under whose general supervision the project will be conducted. In the case of student authorizations, the letter must state that the project has the approval of the school.

(b) Frequencies in the following bands are available for assignment in authorizations issued under this section:
              

(c) Operations under this section are limited to 4 watts equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP). The Commission may authorize a greater power if a satisfactory showing is made that such greater power is necessary and that appropriate measures will be taken to prevent interference.

(d) The frequency of operation must be measured or checked prior to each time of operation.

(e) Subject to the provisions of (b), (c) and (d), the provisions in subpart C of this part are waived insofar as such provisions require a station authorized under this section to observe the technical and operating restrictions set forth therein.

(f) The licensee holding an authorization issued under this section shall maintain a record of operation containing the following information:

(1) A brief description of the experimentation being conducted.

(2) The date and time of each period of operation.

(3) The frequency of operation as measured or checked at the beginning of each period of operation.

(g) The record of operation shall be retained for one month after the termination of the authorization.

