In order to minimize possible harmful interference at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory site located at Green Bank, Pocahontas County, West Virginia, and at the Naval Radio Research Observatory site at Sugar Grove, Pendleton County, West Virginia, any applicant for a station authorization other than mobile, temporary base, temporary fixed, Personal Radio, Civil Air Patrol, or Amateur seeking a station license for a new station, or a construction permit to construct a new station or to modify an existing station license in a manner that would change either the frequency, power, antenna height or directivity, or location of such a station within the area bounded by 39 deg. 15′ N on the north, 78 deg. 30′ W on the east, 37 deg. 30′ N on the south and 80 deg. 30′ W on the west shall, at the time of filing such application with the Commission, simultaneously notify the Director, National Radio Astronomy Observatory, P.O. Box NZ2, Green Bank, West Virginia, 24944, in writing, of the technical particulars of the proposed station. Such notification shall include the geographical coordinates of the antenna, antenna height, antenna directivity if any, frequency, type of emission, and power. In addition, the applicant shall indicate in its application to the Commission the date notification was made to the Observatory. After receipt of such applications, the Commission will allow a period of twenty (20) days for comments or objections in response to the notifications indicated. If an objection to the proposed operation is received during the twenty-day period from the National Radio Astronomy Observatory for itself or on behalf of the Naval Radio Research Observatory, the Commission will consider all aspects of the problem and take whatever action is deemed appropriate.

