(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules, on December 29, 2011, a Rate-of-Return Carrier shall:

(1) Cap the rates for all rate elements for services contained in the definitions of End Office Access Service, Tandem Switched Transport Access Service, and Dedicated Transport Access Service, as well as all other interstate switched access rate elements, in its interstate switched access tariffs at the rate that was in effect on the December 29, 2011; and

(2) Cap, in accordance with § 51.505(b)(2), the rates for rate all elements in its intrastate switched access tariffs associated with the provision of terminating End Office Access Service and terminating Tandem-Switched Transport Access Service at the rates that were in effect on the December 29, 2011,

(i) Using the terminating rates if specifically identified; or

(ii) Using the rate for the applicable rate element if the tariff does not distinguish between originating and terminating.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, nothing in this section obligates or allows a Rate-of-Return Carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions raising such rates.

(b) Step 1. Beginning July 1, 2012, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules:

(1) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall file intrastate access tariff provisions, in accordance with § 51.505(b)(2), that set forth the rates applicable to Transitional Intrastate Access Service in each state in which it provides Transitional Intrastate Access Service.

(2) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall establish the rates for Transitional Intrastate Access Service using the following methodology:

(i) Calculate total revenue from Transitional Intrastate Access Service at the carrier's interstate access rates in effect on December 29, 2011, using Fiscal Year 2011 intrastate switched access demand for each rate element.

(ii) Calculate total revenue from Transitional Intrastate Access Service at the carrier's intrastate access rates in effect on December 29, 2011, using Fiscal Year 2011 intrastate switched access demand for each rate element.

(iii) Calculate the Step 1 Access Revenue Reduction. The Step 1 Access Revenue Reduction is equal to one-half of the difference between the amount calculated in (b)(2)(i) of this section and the amount calculated in (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(iv) A Rate-of-Return Carrier may elect to establish rates for Transitional Intrastate Access Service using its intrastate access rate structure. Carriers using this option shall establish rates for Transitional Intrastate Access Service such that Transitional Intrastate Access Service revenue at the proposed rates is no greater than Transitional Intrastate Access Service revenue at the intrastate rates in effect as of December 29, 2011 less the Step 1 Access Revenue Reduction, using Fiscal Year 2011 intrastate switched access demand. Carriers electing to establish rates for Transitional Intrastate Access Service in this manner shall notify the appropriate state regulatory authority of their election in the filing required by § 51.907(b)(1).

(v) A Rate-of-Return Carrier may elect to apply its interstate access rate structure and interstate rates to Transitional Intrastate Access Service. In addition to applicable interstate access rates, the carrier may, between July 1, 2012 and July 1, 2013, assess a transitional per-minute charge on Transitional Intrastate Access Service end office switching minutes (previously billed as intrastate access). The transitional per-minute charge shall be no greater than the Step 1 Access Revenue Reduction divided by Fiscal Year 2011 Transitional Intrastate Access Service end office switching minutes. Carriers electing to establish rates for Transitional Intrastate Access Service in this manner shall notify the appropriate state regulatory authority of their election in the filing required by § 51.907(b)(1).

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, nothing in this section obligates or allows a Rate-of-Return carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions raising such rates.

(4) If a Rate-of-Return Carrier must make an intrastate switched access rate reduction pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and that Rate-of-Return Carrier has an intrastate rate for a rate element that is below the comparable interstate rate for that element, the Rate-of-Return Carrier shall:

(i) Increase the rate for any intrastate rate element that is below the comparable interstate rate for that element to the interstate rate no later than July 1, 2013;

(ii) Include any increases made pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section in the calculation of its eligible recovery for 2012.

(c) Step 2. Beginning July 1, 2013, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules:

(1) Transitional Intrastate Access Service rates shall be no higher than the Rate-of-Return Carrier's interstate Terminating End Office Access Service and Terminating Tandem-Switched Transport Access Service rates and subject to the same rate structure and all subsequent rate and rate structure modifications. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, nothing in this section obligates or allows a Rate-of-Return Carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions to increase such rates.

(2) If a Rate-of-Return Carrier made an intrastate switched access rate reduction in 2012 pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and that Rate-of-Return Carrier has an intrastate rate for a rate element that is below the comparable interstate rate for that element, the Rate-of-Return Carrier shall:

(i) Increase any intrastate rate element that is below the comparable interstate rate to the interstate rate by July 1, 2013; and

(ii) Include any increases made pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section in the calculation of its eligible recovery for 2013.

(d) Step 3. Beginning July 1, 2014, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules:

(1) Notwithstanding the rate structure rules set forth in § 69.106 of this chapter or anything else in the Commission's rules, a Rate-of-Return Carrier shall establish separate originating and terminating interstate and intrastate rate elements for all components within interstate End Office Access Service. For fixed charges, the Rate-of-Return Carrier shall divide the amount based on relative originating and terminating end office switching minutes. If sufficient originating and terminating end office switching minute data is not available, the carrier shall divide such charges equally between originating and terminating elements.

(2) Nothing in this Step shall affect Tandem-Switched Transport Access Service or Dedicated Transport Access Service.

(3) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall establish rates for interstate and intrastate terminating End Office Access Service using the following methodology:

(i) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall calculate the 2011 Baseline Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. The 2011 Baseline Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate means the Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate calculated using Fiscal Year 2011 interstate demand and the interstate End Office Access Service rates at the levels in effect on December 29, 2011.
              

(ii) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall calculate its 2014 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. The 2014 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate means $0.005 per minute plus two-thirds of any difference between the 2011 Baseline Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. and $0.005 per minute.

(iii) Beginning July 1, 2014, no Rate-of-Return Carrier's interstate or intrastate Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate shall exceed its 2014 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. In the alternative, any Rate-of-Return Carrier may elect to implement a single per minute rate element for terminating End Office Access Service no greater than the 2014 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate.

(4) Nothing in this section obligates or allows a Rate-of-Return Carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions raising such rates.

(e) Step 4. Beginning July 1, 2015, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules:

(1) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall establish rates for interstate and intrastate terminating End Office Access Service using the following methodology:

(i) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall calculate its 2015 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. The 2015 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate means $0.005 per minute plus one-third of any difference between the 2011 Baseline Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate and $0.005 per minute.

(ii) Beginning July 1, 2015, no Rate-of-Return Carrier's interstate or intrastate Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate shall exceed its 2015 Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. In the alternative, any Rate-of-Return Carrier may elect to implement a single per minute rate element for terminating End Office Access Service no greater than the 2015 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate.

(2) [Reserved]

(f) Step 5. Beginning July 1, 2016, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules, each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall establish interstate and intrastate per minute terminating End Office Access Service rates such that its Composite Terminating End Office Access Service rate does not exceed $0.005 per minute. Nothing in this section obligates or allows a Rate-of-Return Carrier that has intrastate rates lower than its functionally equivalent interstate rates to make any intrastate tariff filing or intrastate tariff revisions raising such rates.

(g) Step 6. Beginning July 1, 2017, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules:

(1) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall establish rates for terminating End Office Access Service using the following methodology:

(i) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall calculate its 2017 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. The 2017 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate means $0.0007 per minute plus two-thirds of any difference between that carrier's Terminating End Office Access Service Rate as of July 1, 2016 and $0.0007 per minute.

(ii) Beginning July 1, 2017, no Rate-of-Return Carrier's interstate or intrastate Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate shall exceed its 2017 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. In the alternative, any Rate-of-Return Carrier may elect to implement a single per minute rate element for terminating End Office Access Service no greater than the 2017 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate.

(2) [Reserved]

(h) Step 7. Beginning July 1, 2018, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules:

(1) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall establish rates for terminating End Office Access Service using the following methodology:

(i) Each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall calculate its 2018 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. The 2018 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate means $0.0007 per minute plus one-third of any difference between that carrier's Terminating End Office Access Service Rate as of July 1, 2016 and $0.0007 per minute.

(ii) Beginning July 1, 2018, no Rate-of-Return Carrier's interstate or intrastate Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate shall exceed its 2018 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate. In the alternative, any Rate-of-Return Carrier may elect to implement a single per minute rate element for terminating End Office Access Service no greater than the 2018 interstate Target Composite Terminating End Office Access Rate.

(2) [Reserved]

(i) Step 8. Beginning July 1, 2019, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules, each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall establish interstate and intrastate rates for terminating End Office Access Service that do not exceed $0.0007 per minute.

(j) Step 9. Beginning July 1, 2020, notwithstanding any other provision of the Commission's rules, each Rate-of-Return Carrier shall, in accordance with a bill-and-keep methodology, revise and refile its federal access tariffs and any state tariffs to remove any intercarrier charges for terminating End Office Access Service.

(k) As set forth in FCC 11-161, states will facilitate implementation of changes to intrastate access rates to ensure compliance with the Order. Nothing in this section shall alter the authority of a state to monitor and oversee filing of intrastate tariffs.

