(a) Definitions. As used in this section, the following definitions apply:

(1) Assigned Status. A toll free number record that has specific subscriber routing information entered by the Responsible Organization in the Service Management System database and is pending activation in the Service Control Points.

(2) Disconnect Status. The toll free number has been discontinued and an exchange carrier intercept recording is being provided.

(3) Lag Time. The interval between a toll free number's reservation in the Service Management System database and its conversion to working status, as well as the period of time between disconnection or cancellation of a toll free number and the point at which that toll free number may be reassigned to another toll free subscriber.

(4) Reserved Status. The toll free number has been reserved from the Service Management System database by a Responsible Organization for a toll free subscriber.

(5) Seasonal Numbers. Toll free numbers held by toll free subscribers who do not have a year-round need for a toll free number.

(6) Spare Status. The toll free number is available for assignment by a Responsible Organization.

(7) Suspend Status. The toll free service has been temporarily disconnected and is scheduled to be reactivated.

(8) Unavailable Status. The toll free number is not available for assignment due to an unusual condition.

(9) Working Status. The toll free number is loaded in the Service Control Points and is being utilized to complete toll free service calls.

(b) Reserved Status. Toll free numbers may remain in reserved status for up to 45 days. There shall be no extension of the reservation period after expiration of the initial 45-day interval.

(c) Assigned Status. Toll free numbers may remain in assigned status until changed to working status or for a maximum of 6 months, whichever occurs first. Toll free numbers that, because of special circumstances, require that they be designated for a particular subscriber far in advance of their actual usage shall not be placed in assigned status, but instead shall be placed in unavailable status.

(d) Disconnect Status. Toll free numbers may remain in disconnect status for up to 4 months. No requests for extension of the 4-month disconnect interval shall be granted. All toll free numbers in disconnect status must go directly into the spare category upon expiration of the 4-month disconnect interval. Responsible Organizations shall not retrieve a toll free number from disconnect status and return that number directly to working status at the expiration of the 4-month disconnect interval.

(e) Suspend Status. Toll free numbers may remain in suspend status until changed to working status or for a maximum of 8 months, whichever occurs first. Only numbers involved in billing disputes shall be eligible for suspend status.

(f) Unavailable Status. (1) Written requests to make a specific toll free number unavailable must be submitted to DSMI by the Responsible Organization managing the records of the toll free number. The request shall include the appropriate documentation of the reason for the request. DSMI is the only entity that can assign this status to or remove this status from a number. Responsible Organizations that have a toll free subscriber with special circumstances requiring that a toll free number be designated for that particular subscriber far in advance of its actual usage may request that DSMI place such a number in unavailable status.

(2) Seasonal numbers shall be placed in unavailable status. The Responsible Organization for a toll free subscriber who does not have a year round need for a toll free number shall follow the procedures outlined in ยง 52.103(f)(1) of these rules if it wants DSMI to place a particular toll free number in unavailable status.

