(a) Central Office Code Administration shall be performed by the NANPA, or another entity or entities, as designated by the Commission.

(b) Duties of the entity or entities performing central office code administration may include, but are not limited to:

(1) Processing central office code assignment applications and assigning such codes in a manner that is consistent with this part;

(2) Accessing and maintaining central office code assignment databases;

(3) Conducting the Numbering Resource Utilization and Forecast (NRUF) data collection;

(4) Monitoring the use of central office codes within each area code and forecasting the date by which all central office codes within that area code will be assigned; and

(5) Planning for and initiating area code relief, consistent with § 52.19.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Central Office (CO) Code Administration functional requirements. The NANPA shall manage the United States CO code numbering resource, including CO code request processing, NPA code relief and jeopardy planning, and industry notification functions. The NANPA shall perform its CO Code administration functions in accordance with the published industry numbering resource administration guidelines and Commission orders and regulations of 47 CFR chapter I.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) Mandatory reporting requirements—(1) Number use categories. Numbering resources must be classified in one of the following categories:

(i) Administrative numbers are numbers used by telecommunications carriers to perform internal administrative or operational functions necessary to maintain reasonable quality of service standards.

(ii) Aging numbers are disconnected numbers that are not available for assignment to another end user or customer for a specified period of time. Numbers previously assigned to residential customers may be aged for no more than 90 days. Numbers previously assigned to business customers may be aged for no more than 365 days.

(iii) Assigned numbers are numbers working in the Public Switched Telephone Network under an agreement such as a contract or tariff at the request of specific end users or customers for their use, or numbers not yet working but having a customer service order pending. Numbers that are not yet working and have a service order pending for more than five days shall not be classified as assigned numbers.

(iv) Available numbers are numbers that are available for assignment to subscriber access lines, or their equivalents, within a switching entity or point of interconnection and are not classified as assigned, intermediate, administrative, aging, or reserved.
              

(v) Intermediate numbers are numbers that are made available for use by another telecommunications carrier or non-carrier entity for the purpose of providing telecommunications service to an end user or customer. Numbers ported for the purpose of transferring an established customer's service to another service provider shall not be classified as intermediate numbers.

(vi) Reserved numbers are numbers that are held by service providers at the request of specific end users or customers for their future use. Numbers held for specific end users or customers for more than 180 days shall not be classified as reserved numbers.

(2) Reporting carrier. The term “reporting carrier” refers to a telecommunications carrier that receives numbering resources from the NANPA, a Pooling Administrator or another telecommunications carrier.

(3) Data collection procedures. (i) Reporting carriers shall report utilization and forecast data to the NANPA.

(ii) Reporting shall be by separate legal entity and must include company name, company headquarters address, Operating Company Number (OCN), parent company OCN, and the primary type of business in which the reporting carrier is engaged. The term “parent company” refers to the highest related legal entity located within the state for which the reporting carrier is reporting data.

(iii) All data shall be filed electronically in a format approved by the Common Carrier Bureau.

(4) Forecast data reporting. (i) Reporting carriers shall submit to the NANPA a five-year forecast of their yearly numbering resource requirements.

(ii) In areas where thousands-block number pooling has been implemented:

(A) Reporting carriers that are required to participate in thousands-block number pooling shall report forecast data at the thousands-block (NXX-X) level per rate center;

(B) Reporting carriers that are not required to participate in thousands-block number pooling shall report forecast data at the central office code (NXX) level per rate center.

(iii) In areas where thousands-block number pooling has not been implemented, reporting carriers shall report forecast data at the central office code (NXX) level per NPA.

(iv) Reporting carriers shall identify and report separately initial numbering resources and growth numbering resources.

(5) Utilization data reporting. (i) Reporting carriers shall submit to the NANPA a utilization report of their current inventory of numbering resources. The report shall classify numbering resources in the following number use categories: assigned, intermediate, reserved, aging, and administrative.
              

(ii) Rural telephone companies, as defined in the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 153(37), that provide telecommunications service in areas where local number portability has not been implemented shall report utilization data at the central office code (NXX) level per rate center in those areas.

(iii) All other reporting carriers shall report utilization data at the thousands-block (NXX-X) level per rate center.

(6) Reporting frequency. (i) Reporting carriers shall file forecast and utilization reports semi-annually on or before February 1 for the preceding reporting period ending on December 31, and on or before August 1 for the preceding reporting period ending on June 30. Mandatory reporting shall commence August 1, 2000.

(ii) State commissions may reduce the reporting frequency for NPAs in their states to annual. Reporting carriers operating in such NPAs shall file forecast and utilization reports annually on or before August 1 for the preceding reporting period ending on June 30, commencing August 1, 2000.

(iii) A state commission seeking to reduce the reporting frequency pursuant to paragraph (f) (6)(ii) of this section shall notify the Wireline Competition Bureau and the NANPA in writing prior to reducing the reporting frequency.

(7) Access to data and confidentiality—States shall have access to data reported to the NANPA provided that they have appropriate protections in place to prevent public disclosure of disaggregated, carrier-specific data.
              

(g) Applications for numbering resources—(1) General requirements. All applications for numbering resources must include the company name, company headquarters address, OCN, parent company's OCN(s), and the primary type of business in which the numbering resources will be used.

(2) Initial numbering resources. Applications for initial numbering resources shall include evidence that:

(i) The applicant is authorized to provide service in the area for which the numbering resources are being requested; and

(ii) The applicant is or will be capable of providing service within sixty (60) days of the numbering resources activation date.

(3) Growth numbering resources. (i) Applications for growth numbering resources shall include:

(A) A Months-to-Exhaust Worksheet that provides utilization by rate center for the preceding six months and projected monthly utilization for the next twelve (12) months; and

(B) The applicant's current numbering resource utilization level for the rate center in which it is seeking growth numbering resources.

(ii) The numbering resource utilization level shall be calculated by dividing all assigned numbers by the total numbering resources in the applicant's inventory and multiplying the result by 100. Numbering resources activated in the Local Exchange Routing Guide (LERG) within the preceding 90 days of reporting utilization levels may be excluded from the utilization calculation.

(iii) All service providers shall maintain no more than a six-month inventory of telephone numbers in each rate center or service area in which it provides telecommunications service.

(iv) The NANPA shall withhold numbering resources from any U.S. carrier that fails to comply with the reporting and numbering resource application requirements established in this part. The NANPA shall not issue numbering resources to a carrier without an OCN. The NANPA must notify the carrier in writing of its decision to withhold numbering resources within ten (10) days of receiving a request for numbering resources. The carrier may challenge the NANPA's decision to the appropriate state regulatory commission. The state commission may affirm or overturn the NANPA's decision to withhold numbering resources from the carrier based on its determination of compliance with the reporting and numbering resource application requirements herein.

(4) Non-compliance. The NANPA shall withhold numbering resources from any U.S. carrier that fails to comply with the reporting and numbering resource application requirements established in this part. The NANPA shall not issue numbering resources to a carrier without an Operating Company Number (OCN). The NANPA must notify the carrier in writing of its decision to withhold numbering resources within ten (10) days of receiving a request for numbering resources. The carrier may challenge the NANPA's decision to the appropriate state regulatory commission. The state commission may affirm, or may overturn, the NANPA's decision to withhold numbering resources from the carrier based on its determination that the carrier has complied with the reporting and numbering resource application requirements herein. The state commission also may overturn the NANPA's decision to withhold numbering resources from the carrier based on its determination that the carrier has demonstrated a verifiable need for numbering resources and has exhausted all other available remedies.

(5) State access to applications. State regulatory commissions shall have access to service provider's applications for numbering resources. The state commissions should request copies of such applications from the service providers operating within their states, and service providers must comply with state commission requests for copies of numbering resource applications. Carriers that fail to comply with a state commission request for numbering resource application materials shall be denied numbering resources.

(h) National utilization threshold. All applicants for growth numbering resources shall achieve a 60% utilization threshold, calculated in accordance with paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section, for the rate center in which they are requesting growth numbering resources. This 60% utilization threshold shall increase by 5% on June 30, 2002, and annually thereafter until the utilization threshold reaches 75%.

(i) Reclamation of numbering resources. (1) Reclamation refers to the process by which service providers are required to return numbering resources to the NANPA or the Pooling Administrator.

(2) State commissions may investigate and determine whether service providers have activated their numbering resources and may request proof from all service providers that numbering resources have been activated and assignment of telephone numbers has commenced.

(3) Service providers may be required to reduce contamination levels to facilitate reclamation and/or pooling.

(4) State commissions shall provide service providers an opportunity to explain the circumstances causing the delay in activating and commencing assignment of their numbering resources prior to initiating reclamation.

(5) The NANPA and the Pooling Administrator shall abide by the state commission's determination to reclaim numbering resources if the state commission is satisfied that the service provider has not activated and commenced assignment to end users of their numbering resources within six months of receipt.

(6) The NANPA and Pooling Administrator shall initiate reclamation within sixty days of expiration of the service provider's applicable activation deadline.

(7) If a state commission declines to exercise the authority delegated to it in this paragraph, the entity or entities designated by the Commission to serve as the NANPA shall exercise this authority with respect to NXX codes and the Pooling Administrator shall exercise this authority with respect to thousands-blocks. The NANPA and the Pooling Administrator shall consult with the Wireline Competition Bureau prior to exercising the authority delegated to it in this provision.

(j) Sequential number assignment. (1) All service providers shall assign all available telephone numbers within an opened thousands-block before assigning telephone numbers from an uncontaminated thousands-block, unless the available numbers in the opened thousands-block are not sufficient to meet a specific customer request. This requirement shall apply to a service provider's existing numbering resources as well as any new numbering resources it obtains in the future.

(2) A service provider that opens an uncontaminated thousands-block prior to assigning all available telephone numbers within an opened thousands-block should be prepared to demonstrate to the state commission:

(i) A genuine request from a customer detailing the specific need for telephone numbers; and

(ii) The service provider's inability to meet the specific customer request for telephone numbers from the available numbers within the service provider's opened thousands-blocks.

(3) Upon a finding by a state commission that a service provider inappropriately assigned telephone numbers from an uncontaminated thousands-block, the NANPA or the Pooling Administrator shall suspend assignment or allocation of any additional numbering resources to that service provider in the applicable NPA until the service provider demonstrates that it does not have sufficient numbering resources to meet a specific customer request.

(k) Numbering audits. (1) All telecommunications service providers shall be subject to “for cause” and random audits to verify carrier compliance with Commission regulations and applicable industry guidelines relating to numbering administration.

(2) The Enforcement Bureau will oversee the conduct and scope of all numbering audits conducted under the Commission's jurisdiction, and determine the audit procedures necessary to perform the audit. Numbering audits performed by independent auditors pursuant to this section shall be conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' standards for compliance attestation engagements, as supplemented by the guidance and direction of the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau.
              

(3) Requests for “for cause” audits shall be forwarded to the Chief of the Enforcement Bureau, with a copy to the Chief of the Common Carrier Bureau. Requests must state the reason for which a “for cause” audit is being requested and include documentation of the alleged anomaly, inconsistency, or violation of the Commission rules or orders or applicable industry guidelines. The Chief of the Enforcement Bureau will provide carriers up to 30 days to provide a written response to a request for a “for cause” audit.

