As used in this subpart:

(a) The term 100 largest MSAs includes the 100 largest MSAs as identified in the 1990 U.S. Census reports, as set forth in the Appendix to this part, as well as those areas identified as one of the largest 100 MSAs on subsequent updates to the U.S. Census reports.
              

(b) The term broadband PCS has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 24.5 of this chapter.

(c) The term cellular service has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 22.99 of this chapter.

(d) The term covered CMRS means broadband PCS, cellular, and 800/900 MHz SMR licensees that hold geographic area licenses or are incumbent SMR wide area licensees, and offer real-time, two-way switched voice service, are interconnected with the public switched network, and utilize an in-network switching facility that enables such CMRS systems to reuse frequencies and accomplish seamless hand-offs of subscriber calls.

(e) The term database method means a number portability method that utilizes one or more external databases for providing called party routing information.

(f) The term downstream database means a database owned and operated by an individual carrier for the purpose of providing number portability in conjunction with other functions and services.

(g) The term incumbent wide area SMR licensee has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 20.3 of this chapter.

(h) The term “interconnected VoIP provider” is an entity that provides interconnected VoIP service as that term is defined in 47 CFR 9.3.

(i) The term IP Relay provider means an entity that provides IP Relay as defined by 47 CFR 64.601.

(j) The term local exchange carrier means any person that is engaged in the provision of telephone exchange service or exchange access. For purposes of this subpart, such term does not include a person insofar as such person is engaged in the provision of a commercial mobile service under 47 U.S.C. 332(c).

(k) The term local number portability administrator (LNPA) means an independent, non-governmental entity, not aligned with any particular telecommunications industry segment, whose duties are determined by the NANC.

(l) The term location portability means the ability of users of telecommunications services to retain existing telecommunications numbers without impairment of quality, reliability, or convenience when moving from one physical location to another.

(m) The term long-term database method means a database method that complies with the performance criteria set forth in § 52.3(a).

(n) The term number portability means the ability of users of telecommunications services to retain, at the same location, existing telecommunications numbers without impairment of quality, reliability, or convenience when switching from one telecommunications carrier to another.

(o) The term regional database means an SMS database or an SMS/SCP pair that contains information necessary for carriers to provide number portability in a region as determined by the NANC.

(p) The term Registered Internet-based TRS User has the meaning set forth in 47 CFR 64.601.

(q) The term service control point (SCP) means a database in the public switched network which contains information and call processing instructions needed to process and complete a telephone call. The network switches access an SCP to obtain such information. Typically, the information contained in an SCP is obtained from the SMS.

(r) The term service management system (SMS) means a database or computer system not part of the public switched network that, among other things:

(1) Interconnects to an SCP and sends to that SCP the information and call processing instructions needed for a network switch to process and complete a telephone call; and

(2) Provides telecommunications carriers with the capability of entering and storing data regarding the processing and completing of a telephone call.

(s) The term service portability means the ability of users of telecommunications services to retain existing telecommunications numbers without impairment of quality, reliability, or convenience when switching from one telecommunications service to another, without switching from one telecommunications carrier to another.
              

(t) The term service provider portability means the ability of users of telecommunications services to retain, at the same location, existing telecommunications numbers without impairment of quality, reliability, or convenience when switching from one telecommunications carrier to another.

(u) The term transitional number portability measure means a method that allows one local exchange carrier to transfer telephone numbers from its network to the network of another telecommunications carrier, but does not comply with the performance criteria set forth in 52.3(a). Transitional number portability measures are technically feasible methods of providing number portability including Remote Call Forwarding (RCF), Direct Inward Dialing (DID), Route Indexing—Portability Hub (RI-PH), Directory Number Route Indexing (DNRI) and other comparable methods.

(v) The term VRS provider means an entity that provides VRS as defined by 47 CFR 64.601.

(w) The term 2009 LNP Porting Intervals Order refers to In the Matters of Local Number Portability Porting Interval and Validation Requirements; Telephone Number Portability, WC Docket No. 07-244, CC Docket No. 95-116, Report and Order and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, FCC 09-41 (2009).

