(a) Services designated for support. The following services or functionalities shall be supported by federal universal service support mechanisms:

(1) Voice grade access to the public switched network. “Voice grade access” is defined as a functionality that enables a user of telecommunications services to transmit voice communications, including signalling the network that the caller wishes to place a call, and to receive voice communications, including receiving a signal indicating there is an incoming call. For the purposes of this part, bandwidth for voice grade access should be, at a minimum, 300 to 3,000 Hertz;

(2) Local usage. “Local usage” means an amount of minutes of use of exchange service, prescribed by the Commission, provided free of charge to end users;

(3) Dual tone multi-frequency signaling or its functional equivalent. “Dual tone multi-frequency” (DTMF) is a method of signaling that facilitates the transportation of signaling through the network, shortening call set-up time;

(4) Single-party service or its functional equivalent. “Single-party service” is telecommunications service that permits users to have exclusive use of a wireline subscriber loop or access line for each call placed, or, in the case of wireless telecommunications carriers, which use spectrum shared among users to provide service, a dedicated message path for the length of a user's particular transmission;

(5) Access to emergency services. “Access to emergency services” includes access to services, such as 911 and enhanced 911, provided by local governments or other public safety organizations. 911 is defined as a service that permits a telecommunications user, by dialing the three-digit code “911,” to call emergency services through a Public Service Access Point (PSAP) operated by the local government. “Enhanced 911” is defined as 911 service that includes the ability to provide automatic numbering information (ANI), which enables the PSAP to call back if the call is disconnected, and automatic location information (ALI), which permits emergency service providers to identify the geographic location of the calling party. “Access to emergency services” includes access to 911 and enhanced 911 services to the extent the local government in an eligible carrier's service area has implemented 911 or enhanced 911 systems;

(6) Access to operator services. “Access to operator services” is defined as access to any automatic or live assistance to a consumer to arrange for billing or completion, or both, of a telephone call;

(7) Access to interexchange service. “Access to interexchange service” is defined as the use of the loop, as well as that portion of the switch that is paid for by the end user, or the functional equivalent of these network elements in the case of a wireless carrier, necessary to access an interexchange carrier's network;

(8) Access to directory assistance. “Access to directory assistance” is defined as access to a service that includes, but is not limited to, making available to customers, upon request, information contained in directory listings; and

(9) Toll limitation for qualifying low-income consumers. Toll limitation for qualifying low-income consumers is described in subpart E of this part.

(b) Requirement to offer all designated services. An eligible telecommunications carrier must offer each of the services set forth in paragraph (a) of this section in order to receive federal universal service support.

(c) Additional time to complete network upgrades. A state commission may grant the petition of a telecommunications carrier that is otherwise eligible to receive universal service support under § 54.201 requesting additional time to complete the network upgrades needed to provide single-party service, access to enhanced 911 service, or toll limitation. If such petition is granted, the otherwise eligible telecommunications carrier will be permitted to receive universal service support for the duration of the period designated by the state commission. State commissions should grant such a request only upon a finding that exceptional circumstances prevent an otherwise eligible telecommunications carrier from providing single-party service, access to enhanced 911 service, or toll limitation. The period should extend only as long as the relevant state commission finds that exceptional circumstances exist and should not extend beyond the time that the state commission deems necessary for that eligible telecommunications carrier to complete network upgrades. An otherwise eligible telecommunications carrier that is incapable of offering one or more of these three specific universal services must demonstrate to the state commission that exceptional circumstances exist with respect to each service for which the carrier desires a grant of additional time to complete network upgrades.

