(a) A winning bidder for Mobility Fund Phase I support will be advised by public notice whether it has been authorized to receive support. The public notice will detail how disbursement will be made available.

(b) Mobility Fund Phase I support will be available for disbursement to authorized winning bidders in three stages.

(1) One-third of the total possible support, if coverage were to be extended to 100 percent of the units deemed unserved in the geographic area, when the winning bidder is authorized to receive support.

(2) One-third of the total possible support with respect to a specific geographic area when the recipient demonstrates coverage of 50 percent of the coverage requirements of ยง 54.1006(a) or (b), as applicable.

(3) The remainder of the total support, based on the final total units covered, when the recipient demonstrates coverage meeting the requirements of ยง 54.1006(a) or (b), as applicable.

(c) A recipient accepting a final disbursement for a specific geographic area based on coverage of less than 100 percent of the units in the area previously deemed unserved waives any claim for the remainder of potential Mobility Fund Phase I support with respect to that area.

(d) Prior to each disbursement request, a winning bidder for support in a Tribal land will be required to certify that it has substantively engaged appropriate Tribal officials regarding the issues specified in ยง 54.1004(d)(1), at a minimum, as well as any other issues specified by the Commission and to provide a summary of the results of such engagement.

(e) Prior to each disbursement request, a winning bidder will be required to certify that it is in compliance with all requirements for receipt of Mobility Fund Phase I support at the time that it requests the disbursement.

