(a) State certification. States that desire rural incumbent local exchange carriers and/or eligible telecommunications carriers serving lines in the service area of a rural incumbent local exchange carrier within their jurisdiction to receive support pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, and/or 54.307 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter must file an annual certification with the Administrator and the Commission stating that all federal high-cost support provided to such carriers within that State will be used only for the provision, maintenance, and upgrading of facilities and services for which the support is intended. Support provided pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, and/or 54.307 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter shall only be provided to the extent that the State has filed the requisite certification pursuant to this section.

(b) Carriers not subject to State jurisdiction. A rural incumbent local exchange carrier not subject to the jurisdiction of a state or an eligible telecommunications carrier not subject to the jurisdiction of a state serving lines in the service area of a rural incumbent local exchange carrier that desires to receive support pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, and/or 54.307 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter shall file an annual certification with the Administrator and the Commission stating that all federal high-cost support provided to such carriers will be used only for the provision, maintenance, and upgrading of facilities and services for which the support is intended. Support provided pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, and/or 54.307 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter shall only be provided to the extent that the carrier has filed the requisite certification pursuant to this section.

(c) Certification format. A certification pursuant to this section may be filed in the form of a letter from the appropriate regulatory authority for the State, and shall be filed with both the Office of the Secretary of the Commission clearly referencing CC Docket No. 96-45, and with the Administrator of the high-cost universal service support mechanism, on or before the deadlines set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. If provided by the appropriate regulatory authority for the state, the annual certification must identify which carriers in the State are eligible to receive federal support during the applicable 12-month period, and must certify that those carriers will only use support for the provision, maintenance, and upgrading of facilities and services for which support is intended. A State may file a supplemental certification for carriers not subject to the State's annual certification. All certificates filed by a State pursuant to this section shall become part of the public record maintained by the Commission. Rural incumbent local exchange carriers not subject to the jurisdiction of a state or eligible telecommunications carriers not subject to the jurisdiction of a state serving lines in the service area of a rural incumbent local exchange carrier, shall file a sworn affidavit executed by a corporate officer attesting to the use of the support for the provision, maintenance, and upgrading of facilities and services for which support is intended. The affidavit must be filed with both the Office of the Secretary of the Commission clearly referencing CC Docket No. 96-45, and with the Administrator of the high-cost universal service support mechanism, on or before the deadlines set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. All affidavits filed pursuant to this section shall become part of the public record maintained by the Commission.

(d) Filing deadlines. Upon the filing of the certification described in paragraph (c) of this section, support shall be provided pursuant to the following schedule:

(1) Certifications filed on or before October 1. Carriers for which certifications are filed on or before October 1 shall receive support pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, and/or 54.307 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter, in the first, second, third, and fourth quarters of the succeeding year.

(2) Certifications filed on or before January 1. Carriers for which certifications are filed on or before January 1 shall receive support pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, and/or 54.307 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter, in the second, third, and fourth quarters of that year. Such carriers shall not receive support pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, and/or 54.307 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter in the first quarter of that year.

(3) Certifications filed on or before April 1. Carriers for which certifications are filed on or before April 1 shall receive support pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, and/or 54.307 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter, in the third and fourth quarters of that year. Such carriers shall not receive support pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, and/or 54.307 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter in the first and second quarters of that year.

(4) Certifications filed on or before July 1. Carriers for which certifications are filed on or before July 1 shall receive support pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, and/or 54.307 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter, in the fourth quarter of that year. Such carriers shall not receive support pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, and/or 54.307 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter in the first, second, or third quarters of that year.

(5) Certifications filed after July 1. Carriers for which certifications are filed after July 1 shall not receive support pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, and/or 54.307 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter, in that year.

(6) Newly designated eligible telecommunications carriers. Notwithstanding the deadlines in paragraph (d) of this section, a carrier shall be eligible to receive support pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.305, or § 54.307 or part 36 subpart F of this chapter, whichever is applicable, as of the effective date of its designation as an eligible telecommunications carrier under section 214(e)(2) or (e)(6), provided that it files the certification described in paragraph (b) of this section or the state commission files the certification described in paragraph (a) of this section within 60 days of the effective date of the carrier's designation as an eligible telecommunications carrier. Thereafter, the certification required by paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section must be submitted pursuant to the schedule in paragraph (d) of this section.

