(a) On or before May 15, 2002, all rural incumbent local exchange carriers and rate-of-return carriers for which high-cost universal service support pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.303, and/or 54.305 of this subpart, subpart K of this part, and/or part 36 subpart F is available must select a disaggregation path as described in paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) of this section. In study areas in which a competitive carrier was designated as a competitive eligible telecommunications carrier prior to June 19, 2001, the rural incumbent local exchange carrier or rate-of-return carrier may only disaggregate support pursuant to paragraphs (b), (c), or (d)(1)(iii) of this section. A rural incumbent local exchange carrier or rate-of-return carrier failing to select a disaggregation path as described in paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) of this section by May 15, 2002, will not be permitted to disaggregate and target federal high-cost support unless ordered to do so by a state commission as that term is defined in § 54.5.

(b) Path 1: Carriers Not Disaggregating and Targeting High-Cost Support:

(1) A carrier may certify to the state commission that it will not disaggregate and target high-cost universal service support.

(2) A carrier's election of this path becomes effective upon certification by the carrier to the state commission.

(3) This path shall remain in place for such carrier for at least four years from the date of certification to the state commission except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(4) A state commission may require, on its own motion, upon petition by an interested party, or upon petition by the rural incumbent local exchange carrier or rate-of-return carrier, the disaggregation and targeting of support under paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section.

(5) A carrier not subject to the jurisdiction of a state, e.g., certain tribally owned carriers, may select Path 1, but must certify to the Federal Communications Commission as described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this section.

(c) Path 2: Carriers Seeking Prior Regulatory Approval for the Disaggregation and Targeting of Support:

(1) A carrier electing to disaggregate and target support under this paragraph must file a disaggregation and targeting plan with the state commission.

(2) Under this paragraph a carrier may propose any method of disaggregation and targeting of support consistent with the general requirements detailed in paragraph (e) of this section.

(3) A disaggregation and targeting plan under this paragraph becomes effective upon approval by the state commission.

(4) A carrier shall disaggregate and target support under this path for at least four years from the date of approval by the state commission except as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(5) A state commission may require, on its own motion, upon petition by an interested party, or upon petition by the rural incumbent local exchange carrier or rate-of-return carrier, the disaggregation and targeting of support in a different manner.

(6) A carrier not subject to the jurisdiction of a state, e.g., certain tribally owned carriers, may select Path 2, but must seek approval from the Federal Communications Commission as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.

(d) Path 3: Self-Certification of the Disaggregation and Targeting of Support:

(1) A carrier may file a disaggregation and targeting plan with the state commission along with a statement certifying each of the following:

(i) It has disaggregated support to the wire center level; or

(ii) It has disaggregated support into no more than two cost zones per wire center; or

(iii) That the carrier's disaggregation plan complies with a prior regulatory determination made by the state commission.

(2) Any disaggregation plan submitted pursuant to this paragraph must meet the following requirements:

(i) The plan must be supported by a description of the rationale used, including the methods and data relied upon to develop the disaggregation zones, and a discussion of how the plan complies with the requirements of this paragraph. Such filing must provide information sufficient for interested parties to make a meaningful analysis of how the carrier derived its disaggregation plan.

(ii) The plan must be reasonably related to the cost of providing service for each disaggregation zone within each disaggregated category of support.

(iii) The plan must clearly specify the per-line level of support for each category of high-cost universal service support provided pursuant to §§ 54.301, 54.303, and/or 54.305 and/or part 36, subpart F of this chapter in each disaggregation zone.

(iv) If the plan uses a benchmark, the carrier must provide detailed information explaining what the benchmark is and how it was determined. The benchmark must be generally consistent with how the total study area level of support for each category of costs is derived to enable a competitive eligible telecommunications carrier to compare the disaggregated costs used to determine support for each cost zone.

(3) A carrier's election of this path becomes effective upon certification by the carrier to the state commission.

(4) A carrier shall disaggregate and target support under this path for at least four years from the date of certification to the state commission except as provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(5) A state commission may require, on its own motion, upon petition by an interested party, or upon petition by the rural incumbent local exchange carrier, modification to the disaggregation and targeting of support selected under this path.

(6) A carrier not subject to the jurisdiction of a state, e.g., certain tribally owned carriers, may select Path 3, but must certify to the Federal Communications Commission as described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.

(e) Additional Procedures Governing the Operation of Path 2 and Path 3: Disaggregation and targeting plan adopted under paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section shall be subject to the following general requirements:

(1) Support available to the carrier's study area under its disaggregation plan shall equal the total support available to the study area without disaggregation.

(2) The ratio of per-line support between disaggregation zones for each disaggregated category of support shall remain fixed over time, except as changes are allowed pursuant to paragraph (c) and (d) of this section.

(3) The ratio of per-line support shall be publicly available.

(4) Per-line support amounts for each disaggregation zone shall be recalculated whenever the carrier's total annual support amount changes using the changed support amount and lines at that point in time.

(5) Per-line support for each category of support in each disaggregation zone shall be determined such that the ratio of support between disaggregation zones is maintained and that the product of all of the carrier's lines for each disaggregation zone multiplied by the per-line support for those zones when added together equals the sum of the carrier's total support.

(6) Until a competitive eligible telecommunications carrier is certified in a study area, monthly payments to the incumbent carrier will be made based on total annual amounts for its study area divided by 12.

(7) When a competitive eligible telecommunications carrier is certified in a study area, per-line amounts used to determine the competitive eligible telecommunications carrier's disaggregated support shall be based on the incumbent carrier's then-current total support levels, lines, disaggregated support relationships, and, in the case of support calculated under subpart K of this part, customer classes.

(f) Submission of Information to the Administrator:

(1) A carrier certifying under paragraph (b) of this section that it will not disaggregate and target high-cost universal service support shall submit to the Administrator a copy of the certification submitted to the state commission, or the Federal Communications Commission, when not subject to state jurisdiction.

(2) A carrier electing to disaggregate and target support under paragraph (c) of this section shall submit to the Administrator a copy of the order approving the disaggregation and targeting plan submitted by the carrier to the state commission, or the Federal Communications Commission, when not subject to state jurisdiction, and a copy of the disaggregation and targeting plan approved by the state commission or the Federal Communications Commission.

(3) A carrier electing to disaggregate and target support under paragraph (d) of this section shall submit to the Administrator a copy of the self-certification plan including the information submitted to the state commission pursuant to paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(iv) of this section or the Federal Communications Commission.

(4) A carrier electing to disaggregate and target support under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section must submit to the Administrator maps which precisely identify the boundaries of the designated disaggregation zones of support within the carrier's study area.

