(a) Any recipient of high-cost support shall provide:

(1) A progress report on its five-year service quality improvement plan pursuant to § 54.202(a), including maps detailing its progress towards meeting its plan targets, an explanation of how much universal service support was received and how it was used to improve service quality, coverage, or capacity, and an explanation regarding any network improvement targets that have not been fulfilled in the prior calendar year. The information shall be submitted at the wire center level or census block as appropriate;

(2) Detailed information on any outage in the prior calendar year, as that term is defined in 47 CFR 4.5, of at least 30 minutes in duration for each service area in which an eligible telecommunications carrier is designated for any facilities it owns, operates, leases, or otherwise utilizes that potentially affect

(i) At least ten percent of the end users served in a designated service area; or

(ii) A 911 special facility, as defined in 47 CFR 4.5(e).
              

(iii) Specifically, the eligible telecommunications carrier's annual report must include information detailing:

(A) The date and time of onset of the outage;

(B) A brief description of the outage and its resolution;

(C) The particular services affected;

(D) The geographic areas affected by the outage;

(E) Steps taken to prevent a similar situation in the future; and

(F) The number of customers affected.

(3) The number of requests for service from potential customers within the recipient's service areas that were unfulfilled during the prior calendar year. The carrier shall also detail how it attempted to provide service to those potential customers;

(4) The number of complaints per 1,000 connections (fixed or mobile) in the prior calendar year;

(5) Certification that it is complying with applicable service quality standards and consumer protection rules;

(6) Certification that the carrier is able to function in emergency situations as set forth in § 54.202(a)(2);

(7) The company's price offerings in a format as specified by the Wireline Competition Bureau;

(8) The recipient's holding company, operating companies, affiliates, and any branding (a “dba,” or “doing-business-as company” or brand designation), as well as universal service identifiers for each such entity by Study Area Codes, as that term is used by the Administrator. For purposes of this paragraph, “affiliates” has the meaning set forth in section 3(2) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended;

(9) Beginning April 1, 2013. To the extent the recipient serves Tribal lands, documents or information demonstrating that the ETC had discussions with Tribal governments that, at a minimum, included:

(i) A needs assessment and deployment planning with a focus on Tribal community anchor institutions;

(ii) Feasibility and sustainability planning;

(iii) Marketing services in a culturally sensitive manner;

(iv) Rights of way processes, land use permitting, facilities siting, environmental and cultural preservation review processes; and

(v) Compliance with Tribal business and licensing requirements. Tribal business and licensing requirements include business practice licenses that Tribal and non-Tribal business entities, whether located on or off Tribal lands, must obtain upon application to the relevant Tribal government office or division to conduct any business or trade, or deliver any goods or services to the Tribes, Tribal members, or Tribal lands. These include certificates of public convenience and necessity, Tribal business licenses, master licenses, and other related forms of Tribal government licensure.

(10) Beginning July 1, 2013. A letter certifying that the pricing of the company's voice services is no more than two standard deviations above the applicable national average urban rate for voice service, as specified in the most recent public notice issued by the Wireline Competition Bureau and Wireless Telecommunications Bureau; and

(11) Beginning July 1, 2013. The results of network performance tests pursuant to the methodology and in the format determined by the Wireline Competition Bureau, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau, and Office of Engineering and Technology and the information and data required by this paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section separately broken out for both voice and broadband service.

(b) In addition to the information and certifications in paragraph (a) of this section, any recipient of incremental CAF Phase I support pursuant to § 54.312(b) shall provide:

(1) In its next annual report due after two years after filing a notice of acceptance of funding pursuant to § 54.312(b), a certification that the company has deployed to no fewer than two-thirds of the required number of locations; and

(2) In its next annual report due after three years after filing a notice of acceptance of funding pursuant to § 54.312(b), a certification that the company has deployed to all required locations and that it is offering broadband service of at least 4 Mbps downstream and 1 Mbps upstream, with latency sufficiently low to enable the use of real-time communications, including Voice over Internet Protocol, and with usage caps, if any, that are reasonably comparable to those in urban areas.

(c) In addition to the information and certifications in paragraph (a) of this section, price cap carriers that receive frozen high-cost support pursuant to § 54.312(a) shall provide:

(1) By July 1, 2013. A certification that frozen high-cost support the company received in 2012 was used consistent with the goal of achieving universal availability of voice and broadband;

(2) By July 1, 2014. A certification that at least one-third of the frozen-high cost support the company received in 2013 was used to build and operate broadband-capable networks used to offer the provider's own retail broadband service in areas substantially unserved by an unsubsidized competitor;

(3) By July 1, 2015. A certification that at least two-thirds of the frozen-high cost support the company received in 2014 was used to build and operate broadband-capable networks used to offer the provider's own retail broadband service in areas substantially unserved by an unsubsidized competitor; and

(4) By July 1, 2016 and in subsequent years. A certification that all frozen-high cost support the company received in the previous year was used to build and operate broadband-capable networks used to offer the provider's own retail broadband service in areas substantially unserved by an unsubsidized competitor.

(d) In addition to the information and certifications in paragraph (a) of this section, beginning July 1, 2013, price cap carriers receiving high-cost support to offset reductions in access charges shall provide a certification that the support received pursuant to § 54.304 in the prior calendar year was used to build and operate broadband-capable networks used to offer provider's own retail service in areas substantially unserved by an unsubsidized competitor.

(e) In addition to the information and certifications in paragraph (a) of this section, any recipient of CAF Phase II support shall provide:

(1) In the calendar year no later than three years after implementation of CAF Phase II. A certification that the company is providing broadband service to 85% of its supported locations at actual speeds of at least 4 Mbps downstream/1 Mbps upstream, with latency suitable for real-time applications, including Voice over Internet Protocol, and usage capacity that is reasonably comparable to comparable offerings in urban areas as determined in an annual survey.

(2) In the calendar year no later than five years after implementation of CAF Phase II. A certification that the company is providing broadband service to 100% of its supported locations at actual speeds of at least 4 Mbps downstream/1 Mbps upstream, and a percentage of supported locations, to be specified by the Wireline Competition Bureau, at actual speeds of at least 6 Mbps downstream/1.5 Mbps upstream, with latency suitable for real-time applications, including Voice over Internet Protocol, and usage capacity that is reasonably comparable to comparable offerings in urban areas as determined in an annual survey.

(3) Beginning July 1, 2014. A progress report on the company's five-year service quality plan pursuant to § 54.202(a), including the following information:

(i) A letter certifying that it is meeting the interim deployment milestones as set forth, and that it is taking reasonable steps to meet increased speed obligations that will exist for all supported locations at the expiration of the five-year term for CAF Phase II funding; and

(ii) The number, names, and addresses of community anchor institutions to which the ETC newly began providing access to broadband service in the preceding calendar year.

(f) In addition to the information and certifications in paragraph (a) of this section, any rate-of-return carrier shall provide:

(1) Beginning July 1, 2014. A progress report on its five-year service quality plan pursuant to § 54.202(a) that includes the following information:

(i) A letter certifying that it is taking reasonable steps to provide upon reasonable request broadband service at actual speeds of at least 4 Mbps downstream/1 Mbps upstream, with latency suitable for real-time applications, including Voice over Internet Protocol, and usage capacity that is reasonably comparable to comparable offerings in urban areas as determined in an annual survey, and that requests for such service are met within a reasonable amount of time; and

(ii) The number, names, and addresses of community anchor institutions to which the ETC newly began providing access to broadband service in the preceding calendar year.

(2) Privately held rate-of-return carriers only. A full and complete annual report of the company's financial condition and operations as of the end of the preceding fiscal year, which is audited and certified by an independent certified public accountant in a form satisfactory to the Commission, and accompanied by a report of such audit. The annual report shall include balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements along with necessary notes to clarify the financial statements. The income statements shall itemize revenue, including non-regulated revenue, by its sources. In lieu of filing this annual report, any ETC that files annual financial reports with the Rural Utilities Service may instead file a copy of its report to the Rural Utilities Service.

(g) Areas with No Terrestrial Backhaul. Carriers without access to terrestrial backhaul that are compelled to rely exclusively on satellite backhaul in their study area must certify annually that no terrestrial backhaul options exist. Any such funding recipients must certify they offer broadband service at actual speeds of at least 1 Mbps downstream and 256 kbps upstream within the supported area served by satellite middle-mile facilities. To the extent that new terrestrial backhaul facilities are constructed, or existing facilities improve sufficiently to meet the relevant speed, latency and capacity requirements then in effect for broadband service supported by the CAF, within twelve months of the new backhaul facilities becoming commercially available, funding recipients must provide the certifications required in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section in full. Carriers subject to this paragraph must comply with all other requirements set forth in the remaining paragraphs of this section.

(h) Additional voice rate data. (1) All incumbent local exchange carrier recipients of high-cost support must report all of their rates for residential local service for all portions of their service area, as well as state fees as defined pursuant to § 54.318(e), to the extent the sum of those rates and fees are below the rate floor as defined in § 54.318, and the number of lines for each rate specified. Carriers shall report lines and rates in effect as of June 1.

(2) In addition to the annual filing, local exchange carriers may file updates of their rates for residential local service, as well as state fees as defined pursuant to § 54.318(e), on January 2 of each year. If a local exchange carrier reduces its rates and the sum of the reduced rates and state fees are below the rate floor as defined in § 54.318, the local exchange carrier shall file such an update. For the update, carriers shall report lines and rates in effect as of December 1.

(i) All reports pursuant to this section shall be filed with the Office of the Secretary of the Commission clearly referencing WC Docket No. 10-90, and with the Administrator, and the relevant state commissions, relevant authority in a U.S. Territory, or Tribal governments, as appropriate.

(j) Filing deadlines. In order for a recipient of high-cost support to continue to receive support for the following calendar year, or retain its eligible telecommunications carrier designation, it must submit the annual reporting information required by this section no later than July 1, 2012, except as otherwise specified in this section to begin in a subsequent year, and thereafter annually by July 1 of each year. Eligible telecommunications carriers that file their reports after the July 1 deadline shall receive support pursuant to the following schedule:

(1) Eligible telecommunication carriers that file no later than October 1 shall receive support for the second, third and fourth quarters of the subsequent year.
              

(2) Eligible telecommunication carriers that file no later than January 1 of the subsequent year shall receive support for the third and fourth quarters of the subsequent year.

(3) Eligible telecommunication carriers that file no later than April 1 of the subsequent year shall receive support for the fourth quarter of the subsequent year.

(k) This section does not apply to recipients that solely receive support from the Phase I Mobility Fund.

