(a) Contents. The technology plans referred to in this subpart must include the following five elements:

(1) A clear statement of goals and a realistic strategy for using telecommunications and information technology to improve education or library services;

(2) A professional development strategy to ensure that the staff understands how to use these new technologies to improve education or library services;

(3) An assessment of the telecommunication services, hardware, software, and other services that will be needed to improve education or library services;

(4) A budget sufficient to acquire and support the non-discounted elements of the plan: the hardware, software, professional development, and other services that will be needed to implement the strategy; and

(5) An evaluation process that enables the school or library to monitor progress toward the specified goals and make mid-course corrections in response to new developments and opportunities as they arise.

(b) Relevance of approval under Enhancing Education through Technology. Technology plans that meet the standards of the Department of Education's Enhancing Education Through Technology (EETT), 20 U.S.C. 6764, are sufficient for satisfying paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3) and (a)(5) of this section, but applicants must supplement such plans with an analysis demonstrating that they meet the budgetary requirement described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. Furthermore, to the extent that the Department of Education adopts future technology plan requirements that require one or more of the five elements described in paragraph (a) of this section, such plans will be acceptable for satisfying those elements of paragraph (a) of this section. Applicants with such plans will only need to supplement such plans with the analysis needed to satisfy those elements of paragraph (a) of this section not covered by the future Department of Education technology plan requirements.

(c) Timing of certification. As required under 54.504(b)(2)(vii) and (c)(1)(v), applicants must certify that they have prepared any required technology plans. They must also confirm, in FCC Form 486, that their plan was approved before they began receiving services pursuant to it.

(d) Parties qualified to approve technology plans required in this subpart. Applicants required to prepare and obtain approval of technology plans under this subpart must obtain such approval from either their state, the Administrator, or an independent entity approved by the Commission or certified by the Administrator as qualified to provide such approval. All parties who will provide such approval must apply the standards set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

