(a) Schools. (1) Only schools meeting the statutory definitions of “elementary school,” as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801(18), or “secondary school,” as defined in 20 U.S.C. 7801(38), and not excluded under paragraphs (a)(2) or (3) of this section shall be eligible for discounts on telecommunications and other supported services under this subpart.

(2) Schools operating as for-profit businesses shall not be eligible for discounts under this subpart.

(3) Schools with endowments exceeding $50,000,000 shall not be eligible for discounts under this subpart.

(b) Libraries. (1) Only libraries eligible for assistance from a State library administrative agency under the Library Services and Technology Act (Pub. L. 104-208) and not excluded under paragraphs (b)(2) or (3) of this section shall be eligible for discounts under this subpart.

(2) A library's eligibility for universal service funding shall depend on its funding as an independent entity. Only libraries whose budgets are completely separate from any schools (including, but not limited to, elementary and secondary schools, colleges, and universities) shall be eligible for discounts as libraries under this subpart.

(3) Libraries operating as for-profit businesses shall not be eligible for discounts under this subpart.

(c) Consortia. (1) For purposes of seeking competitive bids for supported services, schools and libraries eligible for support under this subpart may form consortia with other eligible schools and libraries, with health care providers eligible under subpart G, and with public sector (governmental) entities, including, but not limited to, state colleges and state universities, state educational broadcasters, counties, and municipalities, when ordering telecommunications and other supported services under this subpart. With one exception, eligible schools and libraries participating in consortia with ineligible private sector members shall not be eligible for discounts for interstate services under this subpart. A consortium may include ineligible private sector entities if the pre-discount prices of any services that such consortium receives are generally tariffed rates.

(2) For consortia, discounts under this subpart shall apply only to the portion of eligible telecommunications and other supported services used by eligible schools and libraries.

(3) Service providers shall keep and retain records of rates charged to and discounts allowed for eligible schools and libraries—on their own or as part of a consortium. Such records shall be available for public inspection.

