(a) Health care providers. (1) Health care providers shall maintain for their purchases of services supported under this subpart documentation for five years from the end of the funding year sufficient to establish compliance with all rules in this subpart. Documentation must include, among other things, records of allocations for consortia and entities that engage in eligible and ineligible activities, if applicable. Mobile rural health care providers shall maintain annual logs indicating: The date and locations of each clinic stop; and the number of patients served at each such clinic stop.

(2) Mobile rural health care providers shall maintain its annual logs for a period of five years. Mobile rural health care providers shall make its logs available to the Administrator and the Commission upon request.

(b) Production of records. Health care providers shall produce such records at the request of any auditor appointed by the Administrator or any other state or federal agency with jurisdiction.

(c) Random audits. Health care providers shall be subject to random compliance audits to ensure that requesters are complying with the certification requirements set forth in ยง 54.615(c) and are otherwise eligible to receive universal service support and that rates charged comply with the statute and regulations.

(d) Service providers. Service providers shall retain documents related to the delivery of discounted telecommunications and other supported services for at least 5 years after the last day of the delivery of discounted services. Any other document that demonstrates compliance with the statutory or regulatory requirements for the rural health care mechanism shall be retained as well.

