(a) Chief Executive Officer's functions. (1) The Chief Executive Officer shall have management responsibility for the administration of the federal universal service support mechanisms.

(2) The Chief Executive Officer shall have management responsibility for all employees of the Universal Service Administrative Company. The Chief Executive Officer may delegate such responsibility to heads of the divisions established in ยง 54.701(g).

(3) The Chief Executive Officer shall serve on the Administrator's Board of Directors as set forth in ยง 54.703(b) and on the Committees of the Board established under ยง 54.705.

(b) Selection process for the Chief Executive Officer. (1) The members of the Board of Directors of the Administrator shall nominate by consensus a Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors shall submit the name of its nominee for Chief Executive Officer, along with relevant professional and biographical information about the nominee, to the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission.

(2) The Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission shall review the nomination submitted by the Administrator's Board of Directors. Subject to the Chairman's approval, the nominee shall be appointed as the Administrator's Chief Executive Officer.

(3) If the Board of Directors does not reach consensus on a nominee or fails to submit a nomination for the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission shall select a Chief Executive Officer.

