(a) An affected party requesting review of an Administrator decision by the Commission pursuant to § 54.719(c), shall file such a request within sixty (60) days of the issuance of the decision by a division or Committee of the Board of the Administrator.

(b) An affected party requesting review of a division decision by a Committee of the Board pursuant to § 54.719(a), shall file such request within sixty (60) days of issuance of the decision by the division.

(c) An affected party requesting review by the Board of Directors pursuant to § 54.719(b) regarding a billing, collection, or disbursement matter that falls outside the jurisdiction of the Committees of the Board shall file such request within sixty (60) days of issuance of the Administrator's decision.

(d) The filing of a request for review with a Committee of the Board under § 54.719(a) or with the full Board under § 54.719(b), shall toll the time period for seeking review from the Federal Communications Commission. Where the time for filing an appeal has been tolled, the party that filed the request for review from a Committee of the Board or the full Board shall have sixty (60) days from the date the Committee or the Board issues a decision to file an appeal with the Commission.

(e) In all cases of requests for review filed under § 54.719, the request for review shall be deemed filed on the postmark date. If the postmark date cannot be determined, the applicant must file a sworn affidavit stating the date that the request for review was mailed.

(f) Parties shall adhere to the time periods for filing oppositions and replies set forth in 47 CFR 1.45.

