The Administrator shall obtain and pay for an annual audit conducted by an independent auditor to examine its operations and books of account to determine, among other things, whether the Administrator is properly administering the universal service support mechanisms to prevent fraud, waste, and abuse:
              

(a) Before selecting an independent auditor, the Administrator shall submit preliminary audit requirements, including the proposed scope of the audit and the extent of compliance and substantive testing, to the Office of Inspector General.

(b) The Office of Inspector General shall review the preliminary audit requirements to determine whether they are adequate to meet the audit objectives. The Office of Inspector General shall prescribe modifications that shall be incorporated into the final audit requirements.

(c) After the audit requirements have been approved by the Office of Inspector General, the Administrator shall engage within thirty (30) calendar days an independent auditor to conduct the annual audit required by this paragraph. In making its selection, the Administrator shall not engage any independent auditor who has been involved in designing any of the accounting or reporting systems under review in the audit.

(d) The independent auditor selected by the Administrator to conduct the annual audit shall be instructed by the Administrator to develop a detailed audit program based on the final audit requirements and shall be instructed by the Administrator to submit the audit program to the Office of Inspector General. The Office of Inspector General shall review the audit program and make modifications, as needed, that shall be incorporated into the final audit program. During the course of the audit, the Office of Inspector General may direct the Administrator to direct the independent auditor to take any actions necessary to ensure compliance with the audit requirements.

(e) During the course of the audit, the Administrator shall instruct the independent auditor to:

(1) Inform the Office of Inspector General of any revisions to the final audit program or to the scope of the audit;

(2) Notify the Office of Inspector General of any meetings with the Administrator in which audit findings are discussed; and

(3) Submit to the Chief of the Wireline Competition Bureau any accounting or rule interpretations necessary to complete the audit.

(f) Within 105 calendar days after the end of the audit period, but prior to discussing the audit findings with the Administrator, the independent auditor shall be instructed by the Administrator to submit a draft of the audit report to the Office of Inspector General Audit Staff.

(g) The Office of Inspector General shall review the audit findings and audit workpapers and offer its recommendations concerning the conduct of the audit or the audit findings to the independent auditor. Exceptions of the Office of Inspector General to the findings and conclusions of the independent auditor that remain unresolved shall be included in the final audit report.

(h) Within fifteen (15) calendar days after receiving the Office of Inspector General's recommendations and making any revisions to the audit report, the Administrator shall instruct the independent auditor to submit the audit report to the Administrator for its response to the audit findings. At this time the auditor also must send copies of its audit findings to the Office of Inspector General. The Administrator shall provide the independent auditor time to perform additional audit work recommended by the Office of Inspector General.

(i) Within thirty (30) calendar days after receiving the audit report, the Administrator shall respond to the audit findings and send copies of its response to the Office of Inspector General. The Administrator shall instruct the independent auditor that any reply that the independent auditor wishes to make to the Administrator's responses shall be sent to the Office of Inspector General as well as the Administrator. The Administrator's response and the independent auditor's replies shall be included in the final audit report;

(j) Within ten (10) calendar days after receiving the response of the Administrator, the independent auditor shall file with the Commission the final audit report.

(k) Based on the final audit report, the Inspector General may take any action necessary to ensure that the universal service support mechanisms operate in a manner consistent with the requirements of this part, as well as such other action as is deemed necessary and in the public interest.

