(a) Average Price Cap CMT Revenue Per Line Month in a Study Area has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 61.3(d) of this chapter, except that it includes exogenous changes in effect prior to the effective date of a calculation made pursuant to § 54.808 and exogenous changes not yet effective related to the sale or acquisition of exchanges, but excludes any other exogenous changes or other changes made pursuant to § 61.45(i)(4) of this chapter that are not yet effective.

(b) Base Period Lines. For purposes of calculations pursuant to this subpart, Base Period Lines are the number of lines for a given study area or zone as of the end of the quarter ending 6 months prior to the effective date of a calculation pursuant to § 54.808.

(c) Interstate Access Universal Service Support Benchmark shall mean, for residential and single-line business lines, $7.00, and for multi-line business lines, $9.20.

(d) Minimum Adjustment Amount (MAA) is defined in § 54.806(f).

(e) MAA Phase In Percentage is:

50% as of July 1, 2000,

75% as of July 1, 2001,

100% as of July 1, 2002.

(f) Minimum Delta (MD) is defined in § 54.806(d).

(g) Minimum Support Requirement (MSR) is defined in § 54.806(g).

(h) Nationwide Total Above Benchmark Revenues is defined in § 54.806(b).

(i) Price Cap Local Exchange Carrier is defined in § 61.3(aa) of this chapter.

(j) Preliminary Minimum Access Universal Service Support for a Study Area is the amount calculated pursuant to § 54.804.

(k) Preliminary Study Area Universal Service Support (PSAUSS) is defined in § 54.806(c).

(l) Study Area Above Benchmark Revenues is the sum of all Zone Above Benchmark Revenues for all zones in the study area.

(m) Study Area Access Universal Service Support (SAAUS) is defined in § 54.806 (i) and (j).

(n) Total National Minimum Delta (TNMD) is the nationwide sum of all study area Minimum Deltas.

(o) Total National Minimum Support Requirement (TNMSR) is the sum of the MSR for all price cap local exchange carrier area study areas.

(p) Zone Above Benchmark Revenues is defined in § 54.805(a)(2).

(q) Zone Average Revenue per Line. The amount calculated as follows:
              

