(a) Certification. Carriers that desire to receive support pursuant to ยง 54.807 must file a certification with the Administrator and the Commission stating that all interstate access universal service support provided to such carrier will be used only for the provision, maintenance, and upgrading of facilities and services for which the support is intended. Support provided pursuant to ยง 54.807 shall only be provided to the extent that the carrier has filed the requisite certification pursuant to this section.

(b) Certification format. A certification pursuant to this section may be filed in the form of a letter from an authorized representative for the carrier, and must be filed with both the Office of the Secretary of the Commission clearly referencing CC Docket No. 96-45, and with the Administrator of the interstate access universal service support mechanism, on or before the filing deadlines set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. All of the certifications filed by carriers pursuant to this section shall become part of the public record maintained by the Commission.

(c) Filing deadlines. In order for a price cap local exchange carrier or an eligible telecommunications carrier serving lines in the service area of a price cap local exchange carrier to receive interstate access universal service support, such carrier shall file an annual certification, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, on the date that it first files its line count information pursuant to ยง 54.802, and thereafter on June 30 of each year. Such carrier that files its line count information after the June 30 deadline shall receive support pursuant to the following schedule:

(1) Carriers that file no later than September 30 shall receive support for the fourth quarter of that year and the first and second quarters of the subsequent year.

(2) Carriers that file no later than December 31 shall receive support for the first and second quarters of the subsequent year.

(3) Carriers that file no later than March 31 of the subsequent year shall receive support for the second quarter of the subsequent year.

