(a) To be eligible for Interstate Common Line Support, each rate-of-return carrier shall make the following filings with the Administrator.

(1) On April 18, 2002, each rate-of-return carrier shall submit to the Administrator the number of lines it serves as of September 30, 2001, within each rate-of-return carrier study area, by disaggregation zone if disaggregation zones have been established within that study area pursuant to § 54.315, showing residential and single-line business line counts and multi-line business line counts separately. For purposes of this report, and for purposes of computing support under this subpart, the residential and single-line business class lines reported include lines assessed the residential and single-line business End User Common Line charge pursuant to § 69.104 of this chapter, and the multi-line business class lines reported include lines assessed the multi-line business End User Common Line charge pursuant to § 69.104 of this chapter. For purposes of this report, and for purposes of computing support under this subpart, lines served using resale of the rate-of-return local exchange carrier's service pursuant to section 251(c)(4) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, shall be considered lines served by the rate-of-return carrier only and must be reported accordingly. Beginning July 31, 2002, each rate-of-return carrier shall submit the information described in this paragraph in accordance with the schedule in § 36.611 of this chapter.

(2) A rate-of-return carrier may submit the information in paragraph (a) of this section in accordance with the schedule in § 36.612 of this chapter, even if it is not required to do so. If a rate-of-return carrier makes a filing under this paragraph, it shall separately indicate any lines that it has acquired from another carrier that it has not previously reported pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, identified by customer class and the carrier from which the lines were acquired.

(3) Each rate-of-return carrier shall submit to the Administrator annually on March 31st projected data necessary to calculate the carrier's prospective Interstate Common Line Support, including common line cost and revenue data, for each of its study areas in the upcoming funding year. The funding year shall be July 1st of the current year through June 30th of the next year. Each rate-of-return carrier will be permitted to submit a correction to the projected data filed on March 31st until June 30th for the upcoming funding year. On June 30th each rate-of-return carrier will be permitted to submit to the Administrator an update to the projected data for the funding year ending on that date.

(4) Each rate-of-return carrier shall submit to the Administrator on December 31st of each year the data necessary to calculate a carrier's Interstate Common Line Support, including common line cost and revenue data, for the prior calendar year. Such data shall be used by the Administrator to make adjustments to monthly per-line Interstate Common Line Support amounts in the final two quarters of the following calendar year to the extent of any differences between the carrier's ICLS received based on projected common line cost and revenue data and the ICLS for which the carrier is ultimately eligible based on its actual common line cost and revenue data during the relevant period.

(b) Upon receiving the information required to be filed in paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator shall:

(1) Perform the calculations described in § 54.901;

(2) Publish the results of these calculations showing Interstate Common Line Support Per Line available in each rate-of-return carrier study area, by Disaggregation Zone and customer class;

(3) Perform periodic reconciliation of the Interstate Common Line Support provided to each carrier based on projected data filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section and the Interstate Common Line Support for which each carrier is eligible based on actual data filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(4) Collect the funds necessary to provide support pursuant to this subpart in accordance with subpart H of this part;

(5) Distribute support calculated pursuant to the rules contained in this subpart; and

(6) Report quarterly to the Commission on the collection and distribution of funds under this subpart as described in § 54.702(i). Fund distribution reporting will be by state and by eligible telecommunications carrier within the state.

