(a) Certification. Carriers that desire to receive support pursuant to this subpart shall file a certification with the Administrator and the Federal Communications Commission stating that all Interstate Common Line Support provided to such carrier will be used only for the provision, maintenance, and upgrading of facilities and services for which the support is intended. Support provided pursuant to this subpart shall only be provided to the extent that the carrier has filed the requisite certification pursuant to this section.

(b) Certification format. A certification pursuant to this section may be filed in the form of a letter from an authorized representative for the carrier, and must be filed with both the Administrator and the Office of the Secretary of the Federal Communication Commission clearly referencing CC Docket No. 96-45, on or before the filing deadlines set forth in paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) All of the certifications filed by carriers pursuant to this section shall become part of the public record maintained by the Commission.

(d) Filing deadlines. In order for a rate-of-return carrier, and/or an eligible telecommunications carrier serving lines in the service area of a rate-of-return carrier, to receive Interstate Common Line Support, such carrier must file an annual certification, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, on the date that it first files its line count information pursuant to ยง 54.903, and thereafter on June 30th of each year.

