(a) Publications filed electronically must be addressed to “Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554.” The Electronic Tariff Filing System will accept filings 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The official filing date of a publication received by the Electronic Tariff Filing System will be determined by the date and time the transmission ends. If the transmission ends after the close of a business day, as that term is defined in § 1.4(e)(2) of this Chapter, the filing will be date and time stamped as of the opening of the next business day.

(b)(1) In addition, except for issuing carriers filing tariffing fees electronically, for all tariff publications requiring fees as set forth in part 1, subpart G of this chapter, issuing carriers must submit the original of the cover letter (without attachments), FCC Form 159, and the appropriate fee to the U.S. Bank, St. Louis, Missouri at the address set forth in § 1.1105 of this chapter.

(2) Issuing carriers filing tariffing fees electronically must submit the Form 159. The issuing carrier may submit the Form 159 in either of the methods set forth in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section:

(i) Issuing carriers submitting tariffing fees electronically may submit a paper copy of the Form 159, and the original transmittal letter to the Secretary of the Commission in lieu of the U.S. Bank, or;

(ii) Issuing carriers submitting tariffing fees electronically may submit a copy of the Form 159 electronically as an associated document with their tariff filing publication. In this instance issuing carriers must provide an electronic signature on their letter of transmittal in accordance with section 1.52 of this chapter.

(iii) Regardless of whether the Form 159 is submitted pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the Form 159 should display the Electronic Audit Code in the box in the upper left hand corner marked “reserved.” Issuing carriers should submit these fee materials on the same date as the submission in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Carriers that are required to file publications electronically may not file those publications on paper or other media unless specifically required to do so by the Commission.

(d) Carriers that are required to file publications electronically need only transmit one set of files to the Commission. No other copies to any other party are required.

(e) Carriers that are required to file publications electronically must continue to comply with the format requirements set forth in part 61.

