(a) All tariff publications filed with the Commission electronically must be accompanied by a letter of transmittal. All letters of transmittal filed with the Commission must be numbered consecutively by the issuing carrier beginning with Number 1. All letters of transmittal must also:

(1) Concisely explain the nature and purpose of the filing;

(2) Specify whether supporting information is required for the new tariff or tariff revision, and specify the Commission rule or rules governing the supporting information requirements for that filing;

(3) Contain a statement indicating the date and method of filing of the original of the transmittal as required by § 61.14(b);

(4) Include the FCC Registration Number (FRN) of the carrier(s) on whose behalf the cover letter is submitted. See subpart W of part 1 of this title.

(b) Local exchange carriers filing tariffs electronically pursuant to the notice requirements of section 204(a)(3) of the Communications Act shall display prominently, in the upper right hand corner of the letter of transmittal, a statement that the filing is made pursuant to that section and whether the tariff is filed on 7 or 15 days notice.

(c) Any carrier filing a new or revised tariff made on 15 days' notice or less shall include in the letter of transmittal the name, room number, street address, telephone number, and facsimile number of the individual designated by the filing carrier to receive personal or facsimile service of petitions against the filing as required under § 1.773(a)(4) of this chapter.

(d) International carriers must certify that they are authorized under Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, to provide service, and reference the FCC file number of that authorization.

(e) In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, any incumbent local exchange carrier choosing to file an Access Tariff under § 61.39 must include in the transmittal:

(1) A summary of the filing's basic rates, terms and conditions;

(2) A statement concerning whether any prior Commission facility authorization necessary to the implementation of the tariff has been obtained; and

(3) A statement that the filing is made pursuant to § 61.39.

(f) In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, any price cap local exchange carrier filing a price cap tariff must include in the letter of transmittal a statement that the filing is made pursuant to § 61.49.

(g) The letter of transmittal must specifically reference by number any special permission necessary to implement the tariff publication. Special permission must be granted prior to the filing of the tariff publication and may not be requested in the transmittal letter.

(h)(1) The letter of transmittal must be substantially in the following format:

(2) A separate letter of transmittal may accompany each publication, or the above format may be modified to provide for filing as many publications as desired with one transmittal letter.
              

(i) All submissions of documents other than a new tariff or revisions to an existing tariff, such as Base Documents or Tariff Review Plans, must be accompanied by a cover letter that concisely explains the nature and purpose of the filing. Publications submitted under this paragraph are not required to submit a tariffing fee.

