(a) The tariff must be submitted on a 31/2 inch (8.89 cm) diskette, or a 5 inch CD-ROM, formatted in an IBM-compatible form using either WordPerfect 5.1, Microsoft Word 6, or Microsoft Word 97 software. No diskettes shall contain more than one tariff. The diskette or CD-ROM must be submitted in “read only” mode. The diskette or CD-ROM must be clearly labelled with the carrier's name, Tariff Number, software used, and the date of submission. When multiple diskettes or CD-ROMs are submitted, the issuing carrier shall clearly label each diskette in the following format: “1 of _”, “2 of _”, etc.

(b) The tariff must contain the carrier's name, the international Section 214 authorization FCC file number (when applicable), and the information required by Section 203 of the Act.

(c)(1) Changes to a tariff must be made by refiling the entire tariff on a new diskette, with the changed material included. The carrier must indicate in the tariff what changes have been made.

(2) Any issuing carrier submitting an individual tariff that requires ten or more diskettes that wishes to revise its tariff is permitted to do so by filing a diskette containing only those pages on which the changed material is located. Any such carrier shall file a current effective version of its entire tariff on the first business day of each month. For purposes of this paragraph, “business day” is defined in § 1.4(e)(2) of this chapter.

(d) Domestic and international nondominant carriers subject to the provisions of this section are not subject to the tariff filing requirements of § 61.54.

(e)(1) For contract-based tariffs defined in § 61.3(m), a separate letter of transmittal may accompany each tariff filed, or the above format may be modified for filing as many publications as may be desired with one transmittal letter. The transmittals must be numbered in a series separate from transmittals for non-contract tariff filing. Numbers must appear on the face of the transmittal and be in the form of “CTT No. ___”, using CTT as an abbreviation for contract-based tariff transmittals, or some similar form that indicates that the transmittal is a contract-based tariff transmittal. Contract-based tariffs must also be numbered in a series separate from non-contract-based tariffs. Numbers must be in the form of “CT No. ___”, using CT as an abbreviation for contract-based tariffs, or some similar form that indicates that the tariff is a contract-based tariff. Each contract-based tariff must be assigned a separate number. Transmittals and tariffs subject to this paragraph shall be filed beginning with the number “1” and shall be numbered consecutively.

(2) Composition of contract-based tariffs shall comply with §§ 61.54 (b) through (i).

(3) Contract-based tariffs shall include the following:

(i) The term of the contract, including any renewal options;

(ii) A brief description of each of the services provided under the contract;

(iii) Minimum volume commitments for each service;

(iv) The contract price for each service or services at the volume levels committed to by the customers;

(v) A general description of any volume discounts built into the contract rate structure; and
                                    

(vi) A general description of other classifications, practices and regulations affecting the contract rate.

