(a) Publications sent for filing must be addressed to ”Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554.“ The date on which the publication is received by the Secretary of the Commission (or the Mail Room where submitted by mail) is considered the official filing date.

(b)(1) In addition, except for issuing carriers filing tariffing fees electronically, for all tariff publications requiring fees as set forth in part 1, subpart G of this chapter, issuing carriers must submit the original of the cover letter (without attachments), FCC Form 159, and the appropriate fee to the U.S. Bank, St. Louis, Missouri at the address set forth in § 1.1105 of this chapter. Issuing carriers submitting tariffing fees electronically should submit the Form 159 and the original cover letter to the Secretary of the Commission in lieu of the U.S. Bank. The Form 159 should display the Electronic Audit Code in the box in the upper left hand corner marked “reserved.” Issuing carriers should submit these fee materials on the same date as the submission in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) International carriers must certify in their original cover letter that they are authorized under Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, to provide service, and reference the FCC file number of that authorization.

(c) In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the issuing carrier must send a copy of the cover letter with one 31/2 inch diskette or CD-ROM containing both the complete tariff and any attachments, as appropriate, to the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission. In addition, the issuing carrier must send one diskette or CD-ROM of the complete tariff and a copy of the cover letter to the commercial contractor (at its office on Commission premises), and to the Chief, Tariff and Pricing Analysis Branch. The latter should be clearly labeled as the “Public Reference Copy.” The issuing carrier should file the copies required by this paragraph so they will be received on the same date as the filings in paragraph (a) of this section. In cases where the a single diskette or CD-ROM does not provide sufficient capacity for the carrier's entire tariff filing, the issuing carrier may submit two or more diskettes, or two or more CD-ROMs, as necessary.

