(a) Except as specified in § 61.32(b), all publications filed on paper with the Commission must be numbered consecutively by the issuing carrier beginning with Number 1, and must be accompanied by a letter of transmittal, A4 (21 cm×29.7 cm) or 81/2 by 11 inches (21.6 cm×27.9 cm) in size. All letters of transmittal must

(1) Concisely explain the nature and purpose of the filing;

(2) Specify whether supporting information under § 61.38 is required;

(3) State whether copies have been delivered to the Commercial Contractor and the Chief, Pricing Policy Division.

(4) Contain a statement indicating the date and method of filing of the original of the transmittal letter as required by § 61.32(b), and the date and method of filing the copies as required by § 61.32 (a) and (c); and

(5) Include the FCC Registration Number (FRN) of the carrier(s) on whose behalf the letter is submitted. See part 1, subpart W of this chapter.

(b) In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, any local exchange carrier choosing to file an Access Tariff under § 61.39 must include in the transmittal:

(1) A summary of the filing's basic rates, terms and conditions;

(2) A statement concerning whether any prior Commission facility authorization necessary to the implementation of the tariff has been obtained; and

(3) A statement that the filing is made pursuant to § 61.39.

(c) In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, any carrier filing a price cap tariff must include in the letter of transmittal a statement that the filing is made pursuant to § 61.49.

(d) Tariffs filed pursuant to section 204(a)(3) of the Communications Act shall display prominently in the upper right hand corner of the letter of transmittal a statement that the filing is made pursuant to that section and whether it is being filed on 7- or 15-days' notice.

(e) In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, any carrier filing a new or revised tariff made on 15 days' notice or less shall include in the letter of transmittal, the name, room number, street address, telephone number, and facsimile number of the individual designated by the filing carrier to receive personal or facsimile service of petitions against the filing as required under § 1.773(a)(4) of this chapter.

(f) In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, the letter of transmittal must specifically reference by number any special permission necessary to implement the tariff publication. Special permission must be granted prior to the filing of the tariff publication, and may not be requested in the transmittal letter.

(g) The letter of transmittal must be substantially in the following format:

(h)(1) A separate letter of transmittal may accompany each publication, or the above format may be modified to provide for filing as many publications as desired with one transmittal letter.

(2) [Reserved]
                                    

