(a) Publications sent for filing must be addressed to “Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554.” The date on which the publication is received by the Secretary of the Commission (or the Mail Room where submitted by mail) is considered the official filing date.

(b) In addition, except for issuing carriers filing tariffing fees electronically, for all tariff publications requiring fees as set forth in part 1, subpart G of this chapter, issuing carriers must submit the original of the transmittal letter (without attachments), FCC Form 159, and the appropriate fee to the U.S. Bank, St. Louis, Missouri, at the address set forth in § 1.1105 of this chapter. Issuing carriers submitting tariffing fees electronically should submit the Form 159 and the original cover letter to the Secretary of the Commission in lieu of the U.S. Bank. The Form 159 should display the Electronic Audit Code in the box in the upper left hand corner marked “reserved.” Issuing carriers should submit these fee materials on the same date as the submission in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the issuing carrier must send a copy of the transmittal letter with two copies of the proposed tariff pages and all attachments, including the supporting information specified in § 61.38 or § 61.49, as appropriate, to the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission. In addition, the issuing carrier must send a copy of the publication, supporting information specified in § 61.38 or § 61.49, as appropriate, and transmittal letter to the commercial contractor (at its office on Commission premises), and to the Chief, Pricing Policy Division. The latter should be clearly labeled as the “Public Reference Copy.” The copies of supporting information required here are in addition to those required by § 61.38(c). The issuing carrier must file the copies required by this paragraph so they will be received on the same date as the filings in paragraph (a).

