(a)-(c) [Reserved]

(d) Each price cap local exchange carrier shall establish baskets of services as follows:

(1) A basket for the common line, marketing, and certain residual interconnection charge interstate access elements as described in §§ 69.115, 69.152, 69.153, 69.154, 69.155, 69.156, and 69.157 of this chapter. For purposes of §§ 61.41 through 61.49, this basket shall be referred to as the “CMT basket.”

(2) A basket for traffic sensitive switched interstate access elements. For purposes of §§ 61.41 through 61.49 of this chapter, this basket shall be referred to as the “traffic-sensitive basket.”

(3) A basket for trunking services as described in §§ 69.110, 69.111, 69.112, 69.125(b), 69.129, and 69.155 of this chapter. For purposes of §§ 61.41 through 61.49, this basket shall be referred to as the “trunking basket.”

(4)(i) To the extent that a price cap local exchange carrier specified in § 61.41(a)(2) or (a)(3) offers interstate interexchange services that are not classified as access services for the purpose of part 69 of this chapter, such exchange carrier shall establish a fourth basket for such services. For purposes of §§ 61.41 through 61.49, this basket shall be referred to as the “interexchange basket.”

(ii) If a price cap local exchange carrier has implemented interLATA and intraLATA toll dialing parity everywhere it provides local exchange services at the holding company level, that price cap carrier may file a tariff revision to remove corridor and interstate intraLATA toll services from its interexchange basket.
              

(5) A basket for special access services as described in § 69.114 of this chapter.

(e)(1) The traffic sensitive switched interstate access basket shall contain such services as the Commission shall permit or require, including the following service categories:

(i) Local switching as described in § 69.106(f) of this chapter;

(ii) Information, as described in § 69.109 of this chapter;

(iii) Data base access services;

(iv) Billing name and address, as described in § 69.128 of this chapter;

(v) Local switching trunk ports, as described in § 69.106(f)(1) of this chapter; and

(vi) Signalling transfer point port termination, as described in § 69.125(c) of this chapter.

(2) The trunking basket shall contain such switched transport as the Commission shall permit or require, including the following service categories and subcategories:

(i) Voice grade entrance facilities, voice grade direct-trunked transport, voice grade dedicated signalling transport,

(ii) High capacity flat-rated transport, including the following service subcategories:

(A) DS1 entrance facilities, DS1 direct-trunked transport, DS1 dedicated signalling transport, and

(B) DS3 entrance facilities, DS3 direct-trunked transport, DS3 dedicated signalling transport.

(iii) Tandem-switched transport, as described in § 69.111 of this chapter; and

(iv) Signalling for tandem switching, as described in § 69.129 of this chapter.

(3) The special access basket shall contain special access services as the Commission shall permit or require, including the following service categories and subcategories:

(i) Voice grade special access, WATS special access, metallic special access, and telegraph special access services;

(ii) Audio and video services;

(iii) High capacity special access, and DDS services, including the following service subcategories:

(A) DS1 special access services; and

(B) DS3 special access services;

(iv) Wideband data and wideband analog services.

(f) Each price cap local exchange carrier shall exclude from its price cap baskets such services or portions of such services as the Commission has designated or may hereafter designate by order.

(g) New services, other than those within the scope of paragraph (f) of this section, must be included in the affected basket at the first annual price cap tariff filing following completion of the base period in which they are introduced. To the extent that such new services are permitted or required to be included in new or existing service categories within the assigned basket, they shall be so included at the first annual price cap tariff filing following completion of the base period in which they are introduced.

