(a)-(h) [Reserved]

(i) Transport and Special Access Density Pricing Zone Transition Rules—(1) Definitions. The following definitions apply for purposes of paragraph (i) of this section:


                                    Earlier date is the earlier of the special access zone date and the transport zone date.


                                    Earlier service is special access if the special access zone date precedes the transport zone date, and is transport if the transport zone date precedes the special access zone date.


                                    Later date is the later of the special access zone date and the transport zone date.


                                    Later service is transport if the special access zone date precedes the transport zone date, and is special access if the transport zone date precedes the special access zone date.


                                    Revenue weight of a given group of services included in a zone category is the ratio of base period demand for the given service rate elements included in the category priced at existing rates, to the base period demand for the entire group of rate elements comprising the category priced at existing rates.


                                    Special access zone date is the date on which a local exchange carrier tariff establishing divergent special access rates in different zones, as described in § 69.123(c) of this chapter, becomes effective.


                                    Transport zone date is the date on which a local exchange carrier tariff establishing divergent switched transport rates in different zones, as described in § 69.123(d) of this chapter, becomes effective.

(2) Simultaneous Introduction of Special Access and Transport Zones. Price cap local exchange carriers that have established density pricing zones pursuant to § 69.123 of this chapter, and whose special access zone date and transport zone date occur on the same date, shall initially establish density pricing zone SBIs and bands pursuant to the methodology in §§ 61.47(e) through (f).

(3) Sequential Introduction of Zones in the Same Tariff Year. Notwithstanding §§ 61.47(e) through (f), price cap local exchange carriers that have established density pricing zones pursuant to § 69.123 of this chapter, and whose special access zone date and transport zone date occur on different dates during the same tariff year, shall, on the earlier date, establish density pricing zone SBIs and pricing bands using the methodology described in §§ 61.47(e) through (f), but applicable to the earlier service only. On the later date, such carriers shall recalculate the SBIs and pricing bands to limit the pricing flexibility of the services included in each density pricing zone category, as reflected in its SBI, as follows:
                                    

(i) The upper pricing band shall be a weighted average of the following:

(A) The upper pricing band that applied to the earlier services included in the zone category on the day preceding the later date, weighted by the revenue weight of the earlier services included in the zone category; and

(B) 1.05 times the SBI value for the services included in the zone category on the day preceding the later date, weighted by the revenue weight of the later services included in the zone category.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) On the later date, the SBI value for the zone category shall be equal to the SBI value for the category on the day preceding the later date.

(4) Introduction of Zones in Different Tariff Years. Notwithstanding §§ 61.47(e) through (f), those price cap local exchange carriers that have established density pricing zones pursuant to § 69.123 of this chapter, and whose special access zone date and transport zone date do not occur within the same tariff year, shall, on the earlier date, establish density pricing zone SBIs and pricing bands using the methodology described in §§ 61.47(e) through (f), but applicable to the earlier service only.

(j)-(k) [Reserved]

(l) Average Traffic Sensitive Revenues. (1) In the July 1, 2000 annual filing, price cap local exchange carriers will make an additional reduction to rates comprising ATS charge, and to associated SBI upper limits and PCIs. This reduction will be calculated to be the amount that would be necessary to achieve a total $2.1 billion reduction in carrier common line and ATS rates by all price cap local exchange carriers, compared with those rates as they existed on June 30, 2000 using 2000 annual filing base period demand.

(i) The net change in revenue associated with Carrier Common Line Rate elements resulting from:

(A) The removal from access of price cap local exchange carrier contributions to the Federal universal service mechanisms;

(B) Price cap local exchange carrier receipts of interstate access universal service support pursuant to subpart J of part 54;

(C) Changes in End User Common Line Charges and PICC rates;

(D) Changes in Carrier Common Line charges due to GDP-PI—X targeting for $0.0095 filing entities.

(ii) Reductions in Average Traffic Sensitive charges resulting from:

(A) Targeting of the application of the (GDP-PI—X) portion of the formula in § 61.45(b), and any applicable “g” adjustments;

(B) The removal from access of price cap local exchange carrier contributions to the Federal universal service mechanisms;

(C) Additional ATS charge reductions defined in paragraph (2) of this section.

(2) Once the reductions in paragraph (l)(1)(i) and paragraphs (l)(1)(ii)(A) and(l)(1)(ii)(B) of this section are identified, the difference between those reductions and $2.1 billion is the total amount of additional reductions that would be made to ATS rates of price cap local exchange carriers. This amount will then be restated as the percentage of total price cap local exchange carrier Local Switching revenues as of June 30, 2000 using 2000 annual filing base period demand (“June 30 Local Switching revenues”) necessary to yield the total amount of additional reductions and taking into account the fact that, if participating, a price cap local exchange carrier would not reduce ATS rates below its Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq).Each price cap local exchange carrier then reduces ATS rate elements, and associated SBI upper limits and PCIs, by a dollar amount equivalent to the percentage times the June 30 Local Switching revenues for that filing entity, provided that no price cap local exchange carrier shall be required to reduce its ATS rates below its Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq). Each price cap local exchange carrier can take its additional reductions against any of the ATS rate elements, provided that at least a proportional share must be taken against Local Switching rates.

(m) Pooled Local Switching Revenues. (1) Price cap local exchange carriers are permitted to pool local switching revenues in their CMT basket under one of the following conditions.
                                    

(i) Any price cap local exchange carrier that would otherwise have July 1, 2000 price cap reductions as a percentage of Base Period Price Cap Revenues at the holding company level greater than the industry wide total July 1, 2000 price cap revenue reduction as a percentage of Base Period Price Cap Revenues may elect temporarily to pool the amount of the additional reductions above 25% of the Local Switching element revenues necessary to yield that carrier's proportionate share of a total $2.1 billion reduction in switched access usage rates on July 1, 2000. The basis of the reduction calculation will be R at PCIt-1 for the upcoming tariff year. The percentage reductions per line amounts will be calculated as follows: (Total Price Cap Revenue Reduction ÷ Base Period Price Cap Revenues)

Pooled local switching revenue for each filing entity within a holding company that qualifies under this paragraph (i) will continue until such pooled revenues are eliminated under this paragraph. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 61.45(b)(1), once the Average Traffic Sensitive (ATS) rate reaches the applicable Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq), the Targeted Revenue Differential as defined in § 61.45(i) shall be targeted to reducing pooled local switching revenue until the pooled local switching revenue is eliminated. Thereafter, the X-factor for these baskets will be determined in accordance with § 61.45(b)(1).

(ii) Price cap local exchange carriers other than the Bell companies and GTE with at least 20% of total holding company lines operated by companies that as of December 31, 1999 were certified to the Commission as rural carriers, may elect to pool up to the following amounts:

(A) For a price cap holding company's predominantly non-rural filing entities (i.e., filing entities within which more than 50% of all lines are operated by telephone companies other than those that as of December 31, 1999 were certified to the Commission as rural telephone companies), the amount of the additional reductions to Average Traffic Sensitive Charge rates as defined in paragraph (l)(2) of this section, to the extent such reductions exceed 25% of the Local Switching element revenues (measured in terms of June 30, 2000 rates times 1999 base period demand);

(B) For a price cap holding company's predominantly rural filing entities (i.e., filing entities with greater than 50% of lines operated by telephone companies that as of December 31, 1999 were certified to the Commission as rural telephone companies), the amount of the additional reductions to Average Traffic Sensitive Charge rates as defined in paragraph (l)(2) of this section.

(2) Allocation of Pooled Local Switching Revenue to Certain CMT Elements

(i) The pooled local switching revenue for each filing entity is shifted to the CMT basket within price caps. Pooled local switching revenue will not be included in calculations to determine the eligibility for interstate access universal service funding.

(ii) Pooled local switching revenue will be capped on a revenue per line basis.

(iii) Pooled local switching revenue is included in the total revenue for the CMT basket in calculating the X-factor reduction targeted to the traffic sensitive rate elements, and for companies qualified under paragraph (m)(1)(i) of this section, to pooled elements after the Average Traffic Sensitive Charge reaches the target level. For the purpose of targeting X-factor reductions, companies that allocate pooled local switching revenue to other filing entities pursuant to paragraph (m)(2)(vii) of this section shall include pooled local switching revenue in the total revenue of the CMT basket of the filing entity from which the pooled local switching revenue originated.

(iv) Pooled local switching revenue shall be kept separate from CMT revenue in the CMT basket. CMT rate elements for each filing entity shall first be set based on CMT revenue per line without regard to the presence of pooled local switching revenue for each filing entity.

(v) If the rates generated without regard to the presence of pooled local switching revenue for multi-line business PICC and/or multi-line business SLC are below the nominal caps of $4.31 and $9.20, respectively, pooled amounts can be added to these rate elements to the extent permitted by the nominal caps.

(vi) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 69.152(k) of this chapter, pooled local switching revenue is first added to the multi-line business SLC until the rate equals the nominal cap ($9.20) or the pooled local switching revenue is fully allocated. If pooled local switching revenue remains after applying amounts to the multi-line business SLC, notwithstanding the provisions of § 69.153 of this chapter, the remaining pooled local switching revenue may be added to the multi-line business PICC until the rate equals the nominal cap ($4.31) or the pooled local switching revenue is fully allocated. Unallocated pooled local switching revenue may still remain. For companies pooling pursuant to paragraph (m)(1)(i) of this section, these unallocated amounts may not be recovered from the CCL charge, the primary residential and single-line business SLC, a non-primary residential SLC, or from CMT elements in any other filing entity.

(vii) For companies pooling pursuant to paragraph (m)(1)(ii) of this section, pooled local switching revenue that can not be allocated to the multi-line business PICC and multi-line business SLC rates within an individual filing entity may not be recovered from the CCL charge, primary residential and single-line business SLC or residential/single-line business SLC charges, but may be allocated to other filing entities within the holding company, and collected by adding these amounts to the multi-line business PICC and multi-line business SLC rates. The allocation of pooled local switching revenue among filing entities will be re-calculated at each annual filing. In subsequent annual filings, pooled local switching revenue that was allocated to another filing entity will be reallocated to the filing entity from where it originated, to the full extent permitted by the nominal caps of $9.20 and $4.31.

(viii) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 69.152(k) of this chapter, these unallocated local switching revenues that cannot be recovered fully pursuant to paragraph (m)(2)(vii) of this section are first added to the multi-line business SLC of other filing entities until the resulting rate equals the nominal cap ($9.20) or the pooled local switching revenue for the holding company is fully allocated. If the pooled local switching revenue can be fully allocated to the multi-line business SLC, the amount is distributed to each filing entity with a rate below the nominal cap ($9.20) based on its below-cap multi-line business SLC revenue as a percentage of the total holding company's below-cap multi-line business SLC revenue.

(ix) If pooled local switching revenue remains after applying amounts to the multi-line business SLC of all filing entities in the holding company, pooled local switching revenue may be added to the multi-line business PICC of other filing entities. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 69.153 of this chapter, the remaining pooled local switching revenue is distributed to each filing entity with a rate below the nominal cap ($4.31) based on its below-cap multi-line business PICC revenue as a percentage of the total holding company's below-cap multi-line business PICC revenue.

(x) If pooled local switching revenue is added to the multi-line business SLC but not to the multi-line business PICC for a filing entity that qualified to deaverage SLCs without regard to pooled local switching revenue, the resulting SLC rates can still be deaveraged. Total pooled local switching revenue is added to the deaveraged zone 1 multi-line business SLC rate until the per line rate in zone 1 equals the rate in zone 2 or until the pooled local switching revenue is fully allocated to the deaveraged multi-line business SLC rate for zone 1. If pooled local switching revenue remains after the rate in zone 1 equals zone 2, the deaveraged rates of zone 1 and zone 2 are increased until the pooled local switching revenue is fully allocated to the deaveraged multi-line business SLC rates of zone 1 and 2 or until those rates reach the zone 3 multi-line business SLC rate level. This process continues until pooled local switching revenue is fully allocated to the zone deaveraged rates.

(n) Establishment of the special access basket, effective July 1, 2000.
                                    

(1) On the effective date, the PCI value for the special access basket, as defined in § 61.42(d)(5) shall be equal to the PCI for the trunking basket on the day preceding the establishment of the special access basket.

(2) On the effective date, the API value for the special access basket, as defined in § 61.42(d)(5) shall be equal to the API for the trunking basket on the day preceding the establishment of the special access basket.

(3) Service Category, Subcategory, and Density Zone SBIs and Upper Limits.

(i) Interconnection, Tandem Switched Transport, and Signalling Interconnec- tion will retain the SBIs and upper limits and remain in the trunking basket.

(ii) Audio/Video and Wideband will retain the SBIs and upper limits and be moved into the special access basket.

(iii) For Voice Grade, the SBIs and upper limits in both baskets will be equal to the SBIs and upper limits in the existing trunking basket on the day preceding the establishment of the special access basket. Voice Grade density zones in the trunking basket will retain their indices and upper limits. Voice Grade density zones will be initialized in the special access basket when services are first offered in them.

(iv) For High Cap/DDS, DS1, and DS3 category and subcategories, the SBIs and upper limits in both baskets will be equal to the SBIs and upper limits in the existing trunking basket on the day preceding the establishment of the special access basket. SBIs and upper limits for services that are in both combined density zones and either DTT/EF or special access density zones will be calculated by using weighted averages of the indices in the affected zones.

(v) For each DTT/EF-related zone remaining in the trunking basket, the values will be calculated by taking the sum of the products of the DTT/EF revenues times the DTT/EF index (or upper limit) and the DTT/EF-related revenues in the combined zone times the combined index (or upper limit), and dividing by the total DTT/EF-related revenues for that zone.

(vi) For each special access-related zone in the special access basket, the values will be calculated by taking the sum of the products of the special access revenues times the special access index (or upper limit) and the special access-related revenues in the combined zone times the combined index (or upper limit), and dividing by the total special access-related revenues for that zone.

(o) Treatment of acquisitions of exchanges with different ATS Target Rates as set forth in § 61.3(qq):

(1) In the event that a price cap local exchange carrier acquires a filing entity or portion thereof from a price cap local exchange carrier after July 1, 2000, and the price cap local exchange carrier did not have a binding and executed contract to purchase that filing entity or portion thereof as of April 1, 2000, those properties retain their pre-existing Target Rates as set forth in § 61.3(qq). If those properties are merged into a filing entity with a different Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq), the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq) for the merged filing entity will be the weighted average of the Target Rates as set forth in § 61.3(qq) for the properties being combined into a single filing entity, with the average weighted by local switching minutes. When a property acquired as a result of a contract for purchase executed after April 1, 2000 is merged with $0.0095 Target Rate properties, the obligation to apply price cap reductions to reduce CCL, pursuant to § 61.45(b)(iii) does not apply to the properties purchased under contracts executed after April 1, 2000, but continues to apply to the other properties.

(2) For sale of properties for which a holding company was, as of April 1, 2000, under a binding and executed contract to purchase but which close after June 30, 2000, but during tariff year 2000, and that are subject to the $0.0095 Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq), the Average Traffic Sensitive Rate charged by the purchaser for that property will be the greater of $0.0095 or the Average Traffic Sensitive Rate for that property.

