(a) Each price cap tariff filing must be accompanied by supporting materials sufficient to calculate required adjustments to each PCI, API, and SBI pursuant to the methodologies provided in §§ 61.45, 61.46, and 61.47, as applicable.

(b) Each price cap tariff filing that proposes rates that are within applicable bands established pursuant to § 61.47, and that results in an API value that is equal to or less than the applicable PCI value, must be accompanied by supporting materials sufficient to establish compliance with the applicable bands, and to calculate the necessary adjustment to the affected APIs and SBIs pursuant to §§ 61.46 and 61.47, respectively.

(c) Each price cap tariff filing that proposes rates above the applicable band limits established in §§ 61.47 (e) must be accompanied by supporting materials establishing substantial cause for the proposed rates.

(d) Each price cap tariff filing that proposes rates that will result in an API value that exceeds the applicable PCI value must be accompanied by:

(1) An explanation of the manner in which all costs have been allocated among baskets; and

(2) Within the affected basket, a cost assignment slowing down to the lowest possible level of disaggregation, including a detailed explanation of the reasons for the prices of all rate elements to which costs are not assigned.

(e) Each price cap tariff filing that proposes restructuring of existing rates must be accompanied by supporting materials sufficient to make the adjustments to each affected API and SBI required by §§ 61.46(c) and 61.47(d), respectively.

(f)(1) [Reserved]

(2) Each tariff filing submitted by a price cap local exchange carrier that introduces a new loop-based service, as defined in § 61.3(pp) of this part—including a restructured unbundled basic service element (BSE), as defined in § 69.2(mm) of this chapter, that constitutes a new loop-based service—that is or will later be included in a basket, must be accompanied by cost data sufficient to establish that the new loop-based service or unbundled BSE will not recover more than a just and reasonable portion of the carrier's overhead costs.
              

(3) A price cap local exchange carrier may submit without cost data any tariff filings that introduce new services, other than loop-based services.

(4) A price cap local exchange carrier that has removed its corridor or interstate ntraLATA toll services from its interexchange basket pursuant to § 61.42(d)(4)(ii), may submit its tariff filings for corridor or interstate intraLATA toll services without cost data.

(g) Each tariff filing submitted by a price cap local exchange carrier that introduces a new loop-based service or a restructured unbundled basic service element (BSE), as defined in § 69.2(mm) of this chapter, that is or will later be included in a basket, or that introduces or changes the rates for connection charge subelements for expanded interconnection, as defined in § 69.121 of this chapter, must also be accompanied by:

(1) The following, including complete explanations of the bases for the estimates.

(i) A study containing a projection of costs for a representative 12 month period; and

(ii) Estimates of the effect of the new tariff on the traffic and revenues from the service to which the new tariff applies, the carrier's other service classifications, and the carrier's overall traffic and revenues. These estimates must include the projected effects on the traffic and revenues for the same representative 12 month period used in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section.

(2) Working papers and statistical data. (i) Concurrently with the filing of any tariff change or tariff filing for a service not previously offered, the issuing carriers must file the working papers containing the information underlying the data supplied in response to paragraph (h)(1) of this section, and a clear explanation of how the working papers relate to that information.

(ii) All statistical studies must be submitted and supported in the form prescribed in § 1.363 of the Commission's rules.

(h) Each tariff filing submitted by a price cap local exchange carrier that introduces or changes the rates for connection charge subelements for expanded interconnection, as defined in § 69.121 of this chapter, must be accompanied by cost data sufficient to establish that such charges will not recover more than a just and reasonable portion of the carrier's overhead costs.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) For a tariff that introduces a system of density pricing zones, as described in § 69.123 of this chapter, the carrier must, before filing its tariff, submit a density pricing zone plan including, inter alia, documentation sufficient to establish that the system of zones reasonably reflects cost-related characteristics, such as the density of total interstate traffic in central offices located in the respective zones, and receive approval of its proposed plan.

(k) In accordance with §§ 61.41 through 61.49, price cap local exchange carriers that elect to file their annual access tariff pursuant to section 204(a)(3) of the Communications Act shall submit supporting material for their interstate annual access tariffs, absent rate information, 90 days prior to July 1 of each year.

(l) On each page of cost support material submitted pursuant to this section, the issuing carrier shall indicate the transmittal number under which that page was submitted.

