(a) Price cap local exchange carriers shall file adjustments to the PCI for each basket as part of the annual price cap tariff filing, and shall maintain updated PCIs to reflect the effect of mid-year exogenous cost changes.

(b)(1)(i) Adjustments to price cap local exchange carrier PCIs, in those carriers' annual access tariff filings, the traffic sensitive basket described in § 61.42(d)(2), the trunking basket described in § 61.42(d)(3), the special access basket described in § 61.42(d)(5) and the Interexchange Basket described in § 61.42(d)(4)(i), shall be made pursuant to the following formula:
              

(ii) The X value applicable to the baskets specified in §§ 61.42(d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3), shall be 6.5%, to the extent necessary to reduce a tariff entity's ATS charge to its Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq). Once any price cap local exchange carrier tariff entity's ATS Charge is equal to the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq) for the first time (the former NYNEX telephone companies may be treated as a separate tariff entity), then, except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, X is equal to GDP-PI and no further reductions will be mandated (i.e., if applying the full X-factor reduction for a given year would reduce the ATS charge below the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3 (qq), the amount of X-factor reduction applied that year will be the amount necessary to reach the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3 (qq)). A filing entity does not reach the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq) in any year in which it exercises an exogenous adjustment pursuant to § 61.45(d)(vii). For companies with separate tariff entities under a single price cap, the following rules shall apply:

(A) Targeting amounts as defined in § 61.45(i)(1)(i) shall be identified separately, using the revenue for each of the tariff entities under the cap.

(B) Each tariff entity shall only be required to use the amount of targeting necessary to get to the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3 (qq).

(iii)(A) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, once the Tariff Entity's Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3 (qq) is achieved, the X-factor for the CMT basket will equal GDP-PI as long as GDP-PI is less than or equal to 6.5% and greater than 0%. If GDP-PI is greater than 6.5%, and an entity has eliminated its CCL and multi-line business PICCs charges, the X-factor for the CMT basket will equal 6.5%, and all End User Common Line charges, rates and nominal caps, will be increased by the difference between GDP-PI and the 6.5% X-factor. If GDP-PI is less than 0, the X-factor for the CMT basket will be 0.

(B) For tariff filing entities with a Target Rate of $0.0095, or for the portion of a filing entity consolidated pursuant to § 61.48(o) that, prior to such consolidation, had a Target Rate of $0.0095, in which the ATS charge has achieved the Target Rate but in which the carrier common line (CCL) charge has not been eliminated, the X-factor for the CMT basket will be 6.5% until the earlier of June 30, 2004, or until CCL charges are eliminated pursuant to paragraph (i)(4) of this section. Thereafter, in any filing entity in which a CCL charge remains after July 1, 2004, the X-factor for the CMT basket will be determined pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section as if CCL charges were eliminated.

(iv) For the special access basket specified in § 61.42(d)(5), the value of X shall be 3.0% for the 2000 annual filing. The value of X shall be 6.5% for the 2001, 2002 and 2003 annual filings. Starting in the 2004 annual filing, X shall be equal to GDP-PI for the special access basket.

(v) For the interexchange basket specified in § 61.42(d)(4), the value of X shall be 3.0% for all annual filings.

(b)(2) Adjustments to price cap local exchange carrier PCIs and average price cap CMT revenue per line, in tariff filings other than the annual access tariff filing, for the CMT basket described in § 61.42(d)(1), the traffic sensitive basket described in § 61.42(d)(2), the trunking basket described in § 61.42(d)(3), the interexchange basket described in § 61.42(d)(4), and the special access basket described in § 61.42(d)(5), shall be made pursuant to the formulas set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, except that the “w(GDP-PI—X)” component of those PCI formulas shall not be employed.

(c) Effective July 1, 2000, the prices of the CMT basket rate elements, excluding special access surcharges under § 69.115 of this chapter and line ports in excess of basic under § 69.157 of this chapter, shall be set based upon Average Price Cap CMT Revenue per Line month.

(d) The exogenous cost changes represented by the term “Z” in the formula detailed in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section shall be limited to those cost changes that the Commission shall permit or require by rule, rule waiver, or declaratory ruling.

(1) Subject to further order of the Commission, those exogenous changes shall include cost changes caused by:

(i) The completion of the amortization of depreciation reserve deficiencies;

(ii) Such changes in the Uniform System of Accounts, including changes in the Uniform System of Accounts requirements made pursuant to § 32.16 of this chapter, as the Commission shall permit or require be treated as exogenous by rule, rule waiver, or declaratory ruling;

(iii) Changes in the Separations Manual;

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) The reallocation of investment from regulated to nonregulated activities pursuant to § 64.901 of this chapter;

(vi) Such tax law changes and other extraordinary cost changes as the Commission shall permit or require be treated as exogenous by rule, rule waiver, or declaratory ruling;

(vii) Retargeting the PCI to the level specified by the Commission for carriers whose base year earnings are below the level of the lower adjustment mark, subject to the limitation in § 69.731 of this chapter. The allocation of LFAM amounts will be allocated pursuant to § 61.45(d)(3). This section shall not be applicable to tariff filings during the tariff year beginning July 1, 2000, but is applicable in subsequent years;

(viii) Inside wire amortizations;

(ix) The completion of amortization of equal access expenses.

(2) Price cap local exchange carriers specified in §§ 61.41(a)(2) or (a)(3) shall, in their annual access tariff filing, recognize all exogenous cost changes attributable to modifications during the coming tariff year in their Subscriber Plant Factor and the Dial Equipment Minutes factor, and completions of inside wire amortizations and reserve deficiency amortizations.

(3) Exogenous cost changes shall be apportioned on a cost-causative basis between price cap services as a group, and excluded services as a group. Total exogenous cost changes thus attributed to price cap services shall be recovered from services other than those used to calculate the ATS charge.

(e) [Reserved]
              

(f) The exogenous costs caused by new services subject to price cap regulation must be included in the appropriate PCI calculations under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section beginning at the first annual price cap tariff filing following completion of the base period in which such services are introduced.

(g) In the event that a price cap tariff becomes effective, which tariff results in an API value (calculated pursuant to § 61.46) that exceeds the currently applicable PCI value, the PCI value shall be adjusted upward to equal the API value.

(h) [Reserved]

(i)(1)(i) Price cap local exchange carriers that are recovering revenues through rates pursuant to §§ 69.106, 69.108, 69.109, 69.110, 69.111, 69.112, 69.113, 69.118, 69.123, 69.124, 69.125, 69.129, or § 69.155 of this chapter shall target, to the extent necessary to reduce the ATS Charge to the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3 (qq) for the first time, any PCI reductions associated with the dollar impact of application of the (GDP-PI—X) portion of the formula in § 61.45(b)(1)(i) to the traffic sensitive and trunking baskets. In order to calculate the actual dollars to transfer to the trunking and traffic sensitive baskets, carriers will first determine the “Targeted Revenue Differential” that will be transferred to the trunking and traffic sensitive baskets to reduce the ATS Charge to the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq). The Targeted Revenue Differential shall be applied only to the trunking and traffic sensitive baskets to the extent necessary to reduce the ATS charge to the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3 (qq), and shall not be applied to reduce the PCIs in any other basket or to reduce Average Price Cap CMT Revenue per Line month, except as provided in § 61.45(i)(4).

(ii) For the purposes of § 61.45(i)(1)(i), Targeted Revenue Differential will be determined by adding together the following amounts:

(A) R * (GDP-PI−X) for the traffic sensitive basket, trunking basket, and the CMT basket excluding CCL revenues; and

(B) CCL Revenues * [(GDP-PI-X−(g/2)]/[1 + (g/2)]

Where “g” is defined in § 61.45(b)(1)(i).

(2) Until a tariff entity's ATS Charge equals the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3 (qq) for the first time, the Targeted Revenue Differential will be targeted to reduce the following rates for that tariff filing entity, in order of priority:

(i) To the residual per minute Transport Interconnection Charge, until that rate is $0.00; then

(ii) To the Information Surcharge, until that rate is $0.00; then

(iii) To the other Local Switching charges and Switched Transport charges until the tariff entity's ATS Rate equals the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq) for the first time. In making these reductions, the reductions to Local Switching rates as a percentage of total X-factor reductions must be greater than or equal to the percentage proportion of Local Switching revenues to the total sum of revenues for Local Switching, Local Switching Trunk Ports, Signalling Transfer Point Port Termination, Switched Direct Trunked Transport, Signalling for Switched Direct Trunked Transport, Entrance Facilities for switched access traffic, Tandem Switched Transport, and Signalling for Tandem Switching (i.e., Local Switching gets at least its proportionate share of reductions).

(3) After a price cap local exchange carrier reaches the Target Rate as set forth in § 61.3(qq), the ATS Rate will be recalculated each subsequent Annual Filing. This process will identify the new ATS Charge for the new base period level. Due to change in base period demand and inclusion of new services for that annual filing, the absolute level of a tariff entity's ATS Charge may change. The resulting new ATS Charge level will be what that tariff entity will be measured against during that base period. For example, if a company whose target is $0.0055 reached the Target Rate during the 2000 annual filing, that level may change to $0.0058 in the 2001 annual filing due to change in demand and inclusion of new services. Therefore, it will be the $0.0058 average rate that the tariff entity will be measured against for all non-annual filings. Likewise, if that same company was at the Target Rate during the 2000 filing, that level may change to $0.0053 average rate in the 2001 annual filing due to change in demand and inclusion of new services. In that case, it will be at the $0.0053 average rate that the tariff entity will be measured.

(4) A company electing a $0.0095 Target Rate will, in the tariff year it reaches the Target Rate, apply any Targeted Revenue Differential remaining after reaching the Target Rate to reduce Average Price Cap CMT Revenue per Line month until the CCL charge is eliminated. In subsequent years, until the earlier of June 30, 2004 or when the CCL charge is eliminated, tariff filing entities with a Target Rate of $0.0095, or the portion of a filing entity consolidated pursuant to § 61.48(o) that, prior to such consolidation, had a Target Rate of $0.0095, will reduce Average Price Cap CMT Revenue per Line month according to the following method:

(i) Filing entity calculates the maximum allowable carrier common line revenue, as defined in § 61.46(d)(1), that would be permitted in the absence of further adjustment pursuant to this paragraph;

(ii) Filing entity identifies maximum amount of dollars available to reduce Average Price Cap CMT Revenue per Line month by the following:
              

(iii) The Average Price Cap CMT Revenue per Line month shall then be reduced by the lesser of the amount described in paragraph (i)(4)(i) of this section and the amount described in paragraph (i)(4)(ii) of this section, divided by base period Switched Access End User Common Line Charge lines.

