(a) All tariff publications must be in loose-leaf form of size A4 (21 cm×29.7 cm) or 8.5×11 inches (21.6 cm×27.9 cm), and must be plainly printed in black print on white paper of durable quality. Less than 6-point type may not be used. Erasures or alterations in writing must not be made in any tariff publication filed with the Commission or in those copies posted for public convenience. A margin of no less than 2.5 cm (1 inch) in width must be allowed at the left edge of every tariff publication.

(b) Pages of tariffs must be printed on one side only, and must be numbered consecutively and designated as “Original title page,” “Original page 1,” “Original page 2,” etc.

(1) All such pages must show, in the upper left-hand corner the name of the issuing carrier; in the upper right-hand corner the FCC number of the tariff, with the page designation directly below; in the lower left-hand corner the issued date; in the lower right-hand corner the effective date; and at the bottom, center, the street address of the issuing officer. The carrier must also specify the issuing officer's title either at the bottom center of all tariff pages, or on the title page and check sheet only.

(2) As an alternative, the issuing carrier may show in the upper left-hand corner the name of the issuing carrier, the title and street address of the issuing officer, and the issued date; and in the upper right-hand corner the FCC number of the tariff, with the page designation directly below, and the effective date. The carrier must specify the issuing officer's title in the upper left-hand corner of either all tariff pages, or on the title page and check sheet only. A carrier electing to place the information at the top of the page should annotate the bottom of each page to indicate the end of the material, e.g., a line, or the term “Printed in USA,” or “End”.

(3) Only one format may be employed in a tariff publication.

(c) Incumbent local exchange carriers shall file all tariff publications and associated documents, such as transmittal letters, requests for special permission, and supporting information, electronically in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 61.13 through § 61.17.

