(a) Every proposed tariff filing must bear an effective date and, except as otherwise provided by regulation, special permission, or Commission order, must be made on at least the number of days notice specified in this section.

(1) Notice is accomplished by filing the proposed tariff changes with the Commission. Any period of notice specified in this section begins on and includes the date the tariff is received by the Commission, but does not include the effective date. If a tariff filing proposes changes governed by more than one of the notice periods listed below, the longest notice period will apply. In computing the notice period required, all days including Sundays and holidays must be counted.

(2)(i) Local exchange carriers may file tariffs pursuant to the streamlined tariff filing provisions of section 204(a)(3) of the Communications Act. Such a tariff may be filed on 7 days' notice if it proposes only rate decreases. Any other tariff filed pursuant to section 204(a)(3) of the Communications Act, including those that propose a rate increase or any change in terms and conditions, shall be filed on 15 days' notice. Any tariff filing made pursuant to section 204(a)(3) of the Communications Act must comply with the applicable cost support requirements specified in this part.

(ii) Local exchange carriers may elect not to file tariffs pursuant to section 204(a)(3) of the Communications Act. For dominant carriers, any such tariffs shall be filed on at least 16 days' notice. For nondominant carriers, any such tariffs shall be filed on at least one days' notice.

(iii) Except for tariffs filed pursuant to section 204(a)(3) of the Communications Act, the Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, may require the deferral of the effective date of any filing made on less than 120 days' notice, so as to provide for a maximum of 120 days' notice, or of such other maximum period of notice permitted by section 203(b) of the Communications Act, regardless of whether petitions under § 1.773 of this chapter have been filed.
                                    

(3) Tariff filings proposing corrections or voluntarily deferring the effective date of a pending tariff revision must be made on at least 3 days' notice, and may be filed notwithstanding the provisions of § 61.59. Corrections to tariff materials not yet effective cannot take effect before the effective date of the original material. Deferrals must take effect on or before the current effective date of the pending tariff revisions being deferred.

(4) This subsection applies only to dominant carriers. If the tariff publication would increase any rate or charge, or would effectuate and authorized discountinuance, reduction or other impairment of service to any customer, the offering carrier must inform the affected customers of the content of the tariff publication. Such notification should be made in a form appropriate to the circumstance, and may include written notification, personal contact, or advertising in newspapers of general circulation.

(b) Tariffs for new services filed by price cap local exchange carriers shall be filed on at least one day's notice.

(c) Contract-based tariffs filed by price cap local exchange carriers pursuant to § 69.727(a) of this chapter shall be filed on at least one day's notice.

(d)(1) A price cap local exchange carrier that is filing a tariff revision to remove its corridor or interstate intraLATA toll services from its interexchange basket pursuant to § 61.42(d)(4)(ii) shall submit such filing on at least fifteen days' notice.

(2) A price cap local exchange carrier that has removed its corridor and interstate intraLATA toll services from its interexchange basket pursuant to § 61.42(d)(4)(ii) shall file subsequent tariff filings for corridor or interstate intraLATA toll services on at least one day's notice.

(e) Non-price cap carriers and/or services. (1) Tariff filings in the instances specified in paragraphs (e)(1) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section by dominant carriers must be made on at least 15 days' notice.

(i) Tariffs filed in the first instance by new carriers.

(ii) Tariffs filings involving new rates and regulations not previously filed at, from, to or via points on new lines; at, from to or via new radio facilities; or for new points of radio communication.

(iii) Tariff filings involving a change in the name of a carrier, a change in Vertical or Horizontal coordinates (or other means used to determine airline mileages), a change in the lists of mileages, a change in the lists of connecting, concurring or other participating carriers, text changes, or the imposition of termination charges calculated from effective tariff provisions. The imposition of termination charges does not include the initial filing of termination liability provisions.

(2) Tariff filings involving a change in rate structure, a new offering, or a rate increase must be made on at least 45 days' notice.

(3) Alascom, Inc. shall file its annual tariff revisions for its Common Carrier Services (Alascom Tariff F.C.C No. 11) on at least 35 days' notice.

(4) All tariff filings not specifically assigned a different period of public notice in this part must be made on at least 35 days' notice.

(f) All tariff filings of domestic and international non-dominant carriers must be made on at least one days' notice.

