(a) Tariffs must contain in consecutive order: A title page; check sheet; table of contents; list of concurring, connecting, and other participating carriers; explanation of symbols and abbreviations; application of tariff; general rules (including definitions), regulations, exceptions and conditions; and rates. If the issuing carrier elects to add a section assisting in the use of the tariff, it should be placed immediately after the table of contents.

(b) The title page of every tarif_f and supplement must show:

(1) FCC number, indication of cancellations. In the upper right-hand corner, the designation of the tariff or supplement as “FCC No. ____,” or “Supplement No. ____ to FCC No. ____,” and immediately below, the FCC number or numbers of tariffs or supplements cancelled thereby.

(2) Name of carrier, class of service, geographical application, means of transmission. The exact name of the carrier, and such other information as may be necessary to identify the carrier issuing the tariff publication; a brief statement showing each class of service provided; the geographical application; and the type of facilities used to provide service.

(3) Expiration date. Subject to § 61.59, when the entire tariff or supplement is to expire with a fixed date, the expiration date must be shown in connection with the effective date in the following manner. Changes in expiration date must be made pursuant to the notice requirements of § 61.58, unless otherwise authorized by the Commission.
                                    

(4) Title and address of issuing officer. The title and street address of the officer issuing the tariff or supplement in the format specified in § 61.52.

(5) Revised title page. When a revised title page is issued, the following notation must be shown in connection with its effective date:
                                    

(c)(1)(i) The page immediately following the title page must be designated as “Original page 1” and captioned “Check Sheet.” When the original tariff is filed, the check sheet must show the number of pages contained in the tariff. For example, “Page 1 to 150, inclusive, of this tariff are effective as of the date shown.” When new pages are added, they must be numbered in continuing sequence, and designated as “Original page ____ .” For example, when the original tariff filed has 150 pages, the first page added after page 150 is to be designated as “Original page 151,” and the foregoing notation must be revised to include the added pages.

(ii) Alternatively, the carrier is permitted to number its tariff pages, other than the check sheet, to reflect the section number of the tariff as well as the page. For example, under this system, pages in section 1 of the tariff would be numbered 1-1, 1-2, etc., and pages in section 2 of the tariff would be numbered 2-1, 2-2, etc. Issuing carriers shall utilize only one page numbering system throughout its tariff.

(2) If pages are to be inserted between numbered pages, each such page must be designated as an original page and must bear the number of the immediately preceding page followed by an alpha or numeric suffix. For example, when two new pages are to be inserted between pages 44 and 45 of the tariff, the first inserted page must be designated as Original page 44A or 44.1 and the second inserted page as Original page 44B or 44.2. Issuing carriers may not utilize both the alpha and numeric systems in the same publication.

(3)(i) When pages are revised, when new pages (including pages with letter or numeric suffix as set forth above) are added to the tariff, or when supplements are issued, the check sheet must be revised accordingly. Revised check sheets must indicate with an asterisk the specific pages added or revised. In addition to the notation in (1), the check sheet must list, under the heading “The original and revised pages named below (and Supplement No. ____) contain all changes from the original tariff that are in effect on the date shown,” all original pages in numerical order that have been added to the tariff and the pages which have been revised, including the revision number. For example:

(ii) On each page, the carrier shall indicate the transmittal number under which that page was submitted.

(4) Changes in, and additions to tariffs must be made by reprinting the page upon which a change or addition is made. Such changed page is to be designated as a revised page, cancelling the page which it amends. For example, “First revised page 1 cancels original page 1,” or “Second revised page 2 cancels first revised page 2,” etc. When a revised page omits rates or regulations previously published on the page which it cancels, but such rates or regulations are published on another page, the revised page must make specific reference to the page on which the rates or regulations will be found. This reference must be accomplished by inserting a sentence at the bottom of the revised page that states “Certain rates (or regulations) previously found on this page can now be found on page ___.” In addition, the page on which the omitted material now appears must bear the appropriate symbol opposite such material, and make specific reference to the page from which the rates or regulations were transferred. This reference must be accomplished by inserting a sentence at the bottom of the other page that states “Certain rates (or regulations) on this page formerly appeared on page ____.”

(5) Rejected pages must be treated as indicated in § 61.69.

(d) Table of contents. The table of contents must contain a full and complete statement showing the exact location and specifying the page or section and page numbers, where information by subjects under general headings will be found. If a tariff contains so small a volume of matter that its title page or its interior arrangement plainly discloses its contents, the table of contents may be omitted.

(e) Tariff User's guide. At its option, a carrier may include a section explaining how to use the tariff.
                                    

(f) List of concurring carriers. This list must contain the exact name or names of carriers concurring in the tariff, alphabetically arranged, and the name of the city or town in which the principal office of every such carrier is located. If there are no concurring carriers, then the statement “no concurring carriers” must be made at the place where the names of the concurring carriers would otherwise appear. If the concurring carriers are numerous, their names may be stated in alphabetical order in a separate tariff filed with the Commission by the issuing carrier. Specific reference to such separate tariff by FCC number must be made in the tariff at the place where such names would otherwise appear.

(g) List of connecting carriers. This list must contain the exact name or names of connecting carriers, alphabetically arranged, for which rates or regulations are published in the tariff, and the name of the city or town in which the principal office of every such carrier is located. If there are no connecting carriers, then the statement “no connecting carriers” must be made at the place where their names would otherwise appear. If connecting carriers are numerous, their names may be stated in alphabetical order in a separate tariff filed with the Commission by the issuing carrier. Specific reference to such separate tariff by FCC number must be made in the tariff at the place where such names would otherwise appear.

(h) List of other participating carriers. This list must contain the exact name of every other carrier subject to the Act engaging or participating in the communication service to which the tariff or supplement applies, together with the name of the city or town in which the principal office of such carrier is located. If there is no such other carrier, then the statement “no participating carriers” must be made at the place where the names of such other carriers would otherwise appear. If such other carriers are numerous, their names may be stated in alphabetical order in a separate tariff filed with the Commission by the issuing carrier. Specific reference must be made in the tariff at the place where such names would otherwise appear. The names of concurring and connecting carriers properly listed in a tariff published by any other participating carrier need not be repeated in this list.

(i)(1) Symbols, reference marks, abbreviations. The tariff must contain an explanation of symbols, reference marks, and abbreviations of technical terms used. The following symbols used in tariffs are reserved for the purposes indicated below:
                                    

(2) The uniform symbols must be used as follows.

(i) When a change of the same character is made in all or in substantially all matter in a tariff, it may be indicated at the top of the title page of the tariff or at the top of each affected page, in the following manner: “All rates in this tariff are increases,” or, “All rates on this page are reductions, except as otherwise indicated.”

(ii) When a change of the same character is made in all or substantially all matters on a page or supplement, it may be indiated at the top of the page or supplement in the following manner: All rates on this page (or supplement) are increases,” or, “All rates on this page (or supplement) are reductions except as otherwise indicated.”

(3) Items which have not been in effect 30 days when brought forward on revised pages must be shown as reissued, in the manner prescribed in § 61.54(i)(1). The number and original effective date of the tariff publication in which the matter was originally published must be associated with the reissued matter. Items which have been in effect 30 days or more and are brought forward without change on revised pages must not be shown as reissued items.

(j) Rates and general rules, regulations, exceptions and conditions. The general rules (including definitions), regulations, exceptions, and conditions which govern the tariff must be stated clearly and definitely. All general rules, regulations, exceptions or conditions which in any way affect the rates named in the tariff must be specified. A special rule, regulation, exception or condition affecting a particular item or rate must be specifically referred to in connection with such item or rate. Rates must be expressed in United States currency, per chargeable unit of service for all communication services, together with a list of all points of service to and from which the rates apply. They must be arranged in a simple and systematic manner. Complicated or ambiguous terminology may not be used, and no rate, rule, regulation, exception or condition shall be included which in any way attempts to substitute a rate, rule, regulation, exception or condition named in any other tariff.

