(a) Subject to the availability of electronic forms, all filings described in this section must be filed electronically through the International Bureau Filing System (IBFS). A list of forms that are available for electronic filing can be found on the IBFS homepage. For information on electronic filing requirements, see part 1, §§ 1.1000 through 1.10018 of this chapter and the IBFS homepage at http://www.fcc.gov/ibfs. Each application shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed in subpart G of part 1 of this chapter. For applications filed electronically it is not necessary to send the original or any copies with the fee payment. For applications and other filings that are not submitted electronically, an original and five (5) copies of the submission must be filed with the Commission. Upon request by the Commission, additional copies shall be furnished.

(b) No application accepted for filing and subject to the provisions of §§ 63.18, 63.62 or 63.505 of this part shall be granted by the Commission earlier than 28 days following issuance of public notice by the Commission of the acceptance for filing of such application or any major amendment unless said public notice specifies another time period, or the application qualifies for streamlined processing pursuant to § 63.12 of this part.

(c) No application accepted for filing and subject to the streamlined processing provisions of § 63.12 of this part shall be granted by the Commission earlier than 14 days following issuance of public notice by the Commission of the acceptance for filing of such application or any major amendment unless said public notice specifies another time period.

(d) Any interested party may file a petition to deny an application within the time period specified in the public notice listing an application as accepted for filing and ineligible for streamlined processing. The petitioner shall serve a copy of such petition on the applicant no later than the date of filing thereof with the Commission. The petition shall contain specific allegations of fact sufficient to show that the petitioner is a party in interest and that a grant of the application would be prima facie inconsistent with the public interest, convenience and necessity. Such allegations of fact shall, except for those of which official notice may be taken, be supported by affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof. The applicant may file an opposition to any petition to deny within 14 days after the original pleading is filed. The petitioner may file a reply to such opposition within seven days after the time for filing oppositions has expired. Allegations of facts or denials thereof shall similarly be supported by affidavit. These responsive pleadings shall be served on the applicant or petitioner, as appropriate, and other parties to the proceeding.

