The following conditions apply to authorized facilities-based international carriers:

(a) A carrier authorized under § 63.18(e)(1) may provide international facilities-based services to international points for which it qualifies for non-dominant regulation as set forth in § 63.10, except in the following circumstance: If the carrier is, or is affiliated with, a foreign carrier in a destination market and the Commission has not determined that the foreign carrier lacks market power in the destination market (see § 63.10(a)), the carrier shall not provide service on that route unless it has received specific authority to do so under § 63.18(e)(3).

(b) The carrier may provide service using half-circuits on any U.S. common carrier and non-common carrier facilities that do not appear on an exclusion list published by the Commission. Carriers may also use any necessary non-U.S.-licensed facilities, including any submarine cable systems, that do not appear on the exclusion list. Carriers may not use U.S. earth stations to access non-U.S.-licensed satellite systems unless the Commission has specifically approved the use of those satellites and so indicates on the exclusion list. The exclusion list is available from the International Bureau's World Wide Web site at http://www.fcc.gov/ib.
                                    

(c) Specific authority under § 63.18(e)(3) is required for the carrier to provide service using any facilities listed on the exclusion list, to provide service between the United States and any country on the exclusion list, or to construct, acquire, or operate lines in any new major common carrier facility project.

(d) The carrier may provide international basic switched, private line, data, television and business services.

(e) The carrier shall file annual international circuit status reports as required by § 43.82 of this chapter.

(f) The authority granted under this part is subject to all Commission rules and regulations and any conditions or limitations stated in the Commission's public notice or order that serves as the carrier's Section 214 certificate. See §§ 63.12, 63.21 of this part.

