(a)(1) Applications for international service under section 214 of the Communications Act must be filed electronically with the Commission. For applications filed electronically it is not necessary to send the original or any copies with the fee payment. Subject to the availability of electronic forms, all applications and other filings described in this section must be filed electronically through the International Bureau Filing System (IBFS). A list of forms that are available for electronic filing can be found on the IBFS homepage. For information on electronic filing requirements, see part 1, §§ 1.1000 through 1.10018 of this chapter and the IBFS homepage at http://www.fcc.gov/ibfs. See also §§ 63.20.

(2) Applications for international service under section 214 of the Communications Act that are not filed through IBFS shall be submitted on paper not more than 21.6 cm (8.5 in) wide and not more than 35.6 cm (14 in) long with a left-hand margin of 4 cm (1.5 in). This requirement shall not apply to original documents, or admissible copies thereof, offered as exhibits or to specially prepared exhibits. The impression shall be on one side of the paper only and shall be double-spaced, except that long quotations shall be single-spaced and indented. All papers, except charts and maps, shall be typewritten or prepared by mechanical processing methods, other than letter press, or printed. The foregoing shall not apply to official publications. All copies must be clearly legible.

(b) Applications for domestic authorizations under section 214 of the Communications Act shall be submitted on paper not more than 21.6 cm (8.5 in) wide and not more than 35.6 cm (14 in) long with a left-hand margin of 4 cm (1.5 in). This requirement shall not apply to original documents, or admissible copies thereof, offered as exhibits or to specially prepared exhibits. The impression shall be on one side of the paper only and shall be double-spaced, except that long quotations shall be single-spaced and indented. All papers, except charts and maps, shall be typewritten or prepared by mechanical processing methods, other than letter press, or printed. The foregoing shall not apply to official publications. All copies must be clearly legible.

(c) Applications submitted under Section 214 of the Communications Act for international services and any related pleadings that are in a foreign language shall be accompanied by a certified translation in English.

