(a) Unless otherwise specified the Commission shall be furnished with an original and 5 copies of applications filed under section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended; Provided, however, that where applications involve only the supplementation of existing domestic facilities, and the issuance of a certificate is not required, an original and 2 copies of the application shall be furnished. Upon request by the Commission additional copies of the application shall be furnished. Each application shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed in subpart G of part 1 of this chapter.

(b) No application accepted for filing and subject to part 63 of these rules, unless provided for otherwise, shall be granted by the Commission earlier than 30 days following issuance of public notice by the Commission of the acceptance for filing of such application or any major amendment unless said public notice specifies another time period.

(c) Any interested party may file a petition to deny an application within the 30-day or other time period specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The petitioner shall serve a copy of such petition on the applicant no later than the date of filing thereof with the Commission. The petition shall contain specific allegations of fact sufficient to show that the petitioner is a party in interest and that a grant of the application would be prima facie inconsistent with the public interest, convenience and necessity. Such allegations of fact shall, except for those of which official notice may be taken, be supported by affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof. The applicant may file an opposition to any petition to deny, and the petitioners may file a reply to such opposition (see ยง 1.45 of this chapter), and allegations of facts or denials thereof shall similarly be supported by affidavit. These responsive pleadings shall be served on the applicant or petitioners, as appropriate, and other parties to the proceeding.

