(a) Applicability. A telecommunications carrier that will provide interstate telecommunications service shall file the registration information described in paragraph (b) of this section in accordance with the procedures described in paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section. Any telecommunications carrier already providing interstate telecommunications service on the effective date of these rules shall submit the relevant portion of its FCC Form 499-A in accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(b) Information required for purposes of part 64. A telecommunications carrier that is subject to the registration requirement pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall provide the following information:

(1) The carrier's business name(s) and primary address;

(2) The names and business addresses of the carrier's chief executive officer, chairman, and president, or, in the event that a company does not have such executives, three similarly senior-level officials of the company;

(3) The carrier's regulatory contact and/or designated agent;

(4) All names that the carrier has used in the past; and

(5) The state(s) in which the carrier provides telecommunications service.

(c) Submission of registration. A carrier that is subject to the registration requirement pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall submit the information described in paragraph (b) of this section in accordance with the Instructions to FCC Form 499-A. FCC Form 499-A must be submitted under oath and penalty of perjury.

(d) Rejection of registration. The Commission may reject or suspend a carrier's registration for any of the reasons identified in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section.

(e) Revocation or suspension of operating authority. After notice and opportunity to respond, the Commission may revoke or suspend the authorization of a carrier to provide service if the carrier provides materially false or incomplete information in its FCC Form 499-A or otherwise fails to comply with paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.

(f) Imposition of fine. After notice and opportunity to respond, the Commission may impose a fine on a carrier that is subject to the registration requirement pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section if that carrier fails to submit an FCC Form 499-A in accordance with paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
                                    

(g) Changes in information. A carrier must notify the Commission of any changes to the information provided pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section within no more than one week of the change. Carriers may satisfy this requirement by filing the relevant portion of FCC Form 499-A in accordance with the Instructions to such form.

(h) Duty to confirm registration of other carriers. The Commission shall make available to the public a comprehensive listing of registrants and the information that they have provided pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. A telecommunications carrier providing telecommunications service for resale shall have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether a potential carrier-customer (i.e., reseller) that is subject to the registration requirement pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section has filed an FCC Form 499-A with the Commission prior to offering service to that carrier-customer. After notice and opportunity to respond, the Commission may impose a fine on a carrier for failure to confirm the registration status of a potential carrier-customer before providing that carrier-customer with service.

