(a) Interim access code and subscriber 800 calls. In the absence of a negotiated agreement to pay a different amount, each entity listed in Appendix A of the Fifth Order on Reconsideration and Order on Remand in CC Docket No. 96-128, FCC 02-292, must pay default compensation to payphone service providers for payphone access code calls and payphone subscriber 800 calls for the period beginning November 7, 1996, and ending October 6, 1997, in the amount listed in Appendix A per payphone per month. A complete copy of Appendix A is available at www.fcc.gov.
              

(b) Interim payphone compensation for inmate calls. In the absence of a negotiated agreement to pay a different amount, if a payphone service provider providing inmate service was not compensated for calls originating at an inmate telephone during the period starting on November 7, 1996, and ending on October 6, 1997, an interexchange carrier to which the inmate telephone was presubscribed during this same time period must compensate the payphone service provider providing inmate service at the default rate of $0.238 per inmate call originating during the same time period, except that a payphone service provider that is affiliated with a local exchange carrier is not eligible to receive payphone compensation prior to April 16, 1997, or, in the alternative, the first day following both the termination of subsidies and payphone reclassification and transfer, whichever date is latest.

(c) Interim compensation for 0+ payphone calls. In the absence of a negotiated agreement to pay a different amount, if a payphone service provider was not compensated for 0+ calls originating during the period starting on November 7, 1996, and ending on October 6, 1997, an interexchange carrier to which the payphone was presubscribed during this same time period must compensate the payphone service provider in the default amount of $4.2747 per payphone per month during the same time period, except that a payphone service provider that is affiliated with a local exchange carrier is not eligible to receive payphone compensation prior to April 16, 1997, or, in the alternative, the first day following both the termination of subsidies and payphone reclassification and transfer, whichever date is latest.

(d) Intermediate access code and subscriber 800 calls. In the absence of a negotiated agreement to pay a different amount, each entity listed in Appendix B of the Fifth Order on Reconsideration and Order on Remand in CC Docket No. 96-128, FCC 02-292, must pay default compensation to payphone service providers for access code calls and payphone subscriber 800 calls for the period beginning October 7, 1997, and ending April 20, 1999, in the amount listed in Appendix B for any payphone for any month during which per-call compensation for that payphone for that month was not paid by the listed entity. A complete copy of Appendix B is available at www.fcc.gov.
              

(e) Post-intermediate access code and subscriber 800 calls. In the absence of a negotiated agreement to pay a different amount, each entity listed in Appendix C of the Fifth Order on Reconsideration and Order on Remand in CC Docket No. 96-128, FCC 02-292, must pay default compensation to payphone service providers for access code calls and payphone subscriber 800 calls for the period beginning April 21, 1999, in the amount listed in Appendix C for any payphone for any month during which per-call compensation for that payphone for that month was or is not paid by the listed entity. A complete copy of Appendix C is available at www.fcc.gov.
              

