(a) Aggregate information. The term “aggregate information” means collective data that relate to a group or category of services or customers, from which individual customer identities or characteristics have been removed.

(b) ANI. The term “ANI” (automatic number identification) refers to the delivery of the calling party's billing number by a local exchange carrier to any interconnecting carrier for billing or routing purposes, and to the subsequent delivery of such number to end users.

(c) Caller identification information. The term “caller identification information” means information provided by a caller identification service regarding the telephone number of, or other information regarding the origination of, a call made using a telecommunications service or interconnected VoIP service.

(d) Caller identification service. The term “caller identification service” means any service or device designed to provide the user of the service or device with the telephone number of, or other information regarding the origination of, a call made using a telecommunications service or interconnected VoIP service.

(e) Calling party number. The term “Calling Party Number” refers to the subscriber line number or the directory number contained in the calling party number parameter of the call set-up message associated with an interstate call on a Signaling System 7 network.

(f) Charge number. The term “charge number” refers to the delivery of the calling party's billing number in a Signaling System 7 environment by a local exchange carrier to any interconnecting carrier for billing or routing purposes, and to the subsequent delivery of such number to end users.

(g) Information regarding the origination. The term “information regarding the origination” means any:

(1) Telephone number;

(2) Portion of a telephone number, such as an area code;

(3) Name;

(4) Location information;

(5) Billing number information, including charge number, ANI, or pseudo-ANI; or

(6) Other information regarding the source or apparent source of a telephone call.

(h) Interconnected VoIP service. The term “interconnected VoIP service” has the same meaning given the term “interconnected VoIP service” in 47 CFR 9.3 as it currently exists or may hereafter be amended.
                                    

(i) Privacy indicator. The term “Privacy Indicator” refers to information, contained in the calling party number parameter of the call set-up message associated with an interstate call on an Signaling System 7 network, that indicates whether the calling party authorizes presentation of the calling party number to the called party.

(j) Signaling System 7. The term “Signaling System 7” (SS7) refers to a carrier to carrier out-of-band signaling network used for call routing, billing and management.

