(a) An incumbent independent LEC providing in-region, interstate, interexchange services or in-region international interexchange services shall provide such services through an affiliate that satisfies the following requirements:

(1) The affiliate shall maintain separate books of account from its affiliated exchange companies. Nothing in this section requires the affiliate to maintain separate books of account that comply with part 32 of this title;

(2) The affiliate shall not jointly own transmission or switching facilities with its affiliated exchange companies. Nothing in this section prohibits an affiliate from sharing personnel or other resources or assets with an affiliated exchange company; and

(3) The affiliate shall acquire any services from its affiliated exchange companies for which the affiliated exchange companies are required to file a tariff at tariffed rates, terms, and conditions. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the affiliate from acquiring any unbundled network elements or exchange services for the provision of a telecommunications service from its affiliated exchange companies, subject to the same terms and conditions as provided in an agreement approved under section 252 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the affiliate required in paragraph (a) of this section shall be a separate legal entity from its affiliated exchange companies. The affiliate may be staffed by personnel of its affiliated exchange companies, housed in existing offices of its affiliated exchange companies, and use its affiliated exchange companies' marketing and other services, subject to paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(1) For an incumbent independent LEC that provides in-region, interstate domestic interexchange services or in-region international interexchange services using no interexchange switching or transmission facilities or capability of the LEC's own (i.e., “independent LEC reseller,”) the affiliate required in paragraph (a) of this section may be a separate corporate division of such incumbent independent LEC. All other provisions of this Subpart applicable to an independent LEC affiliate shall continue to apply, as applicable, to such separate corporate division.

(2) [Reserved]

