(a) The procedures set forth in this rule apply to carriers that are required to file with the International Bureau, pursuant to § 43.51(e) of this chapter, requests to modify international settlement arrangements. Any operating agreement or amendment for which a modification request is required to be filed cannot become effective until the modification request has been granted under paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) A modification request must contain the following information:

(1) The applicable international service;

(2) The name of the foreign telecommunications administration;

(3) The present accounting rate (including any surcharges);

(4) The new accounting rate (including any surcharges);

(5) The effective date;

(6) The division of the accounting rate; and

(7) An explanation of any proposed modification(s) in the operating agreement with the foreign correspondent.

(c) A modification request must contain a notarized statement that the filing carrier:

(1) Has not bargained for, nor has knowledge of, exclusive availability of the new accounting rate;

(2) Has not bargained for, nor has any indication that it will receive, more than its proportionate share of return traffic; and

(3) Has informed the foreign administration that U.S. policy requires that competing U.S. carriers have access to accounting rates negotiated by the filing carrier with the foreign administration on a nondiscriminatory basis.
              

(d) Carriers must serve a copy of the modification request on all carriers providing the same or similar service to the foreign administration identified in the filing on the same day a modification request is filed.

(e) All modification requests will be subject to a twenty-one (21) day pleading period for objections or comments, commencing the date after the request is filed. If the modification request is not complete when filed, the carrier will be notified that additional information is to be submitted, and a new 21 day pleading period will begin when the additional information is filed. The modification request will be deemed granted as of the twenty-second (22nd) day without any formal staff action being taken: provided

(1) No objections have been filed, and

(2) The International Bureau has not notified the carrier that grant of the modification request may not serve the public interest and that implementation of the proposed modification must await formal staff action on the modification request. If objections or comments are filed, the carrier requesting the modification request may file a response pursuant to § 1.45 of this chapter. Modification requests that are formally opposed must await formal action by the International Bureau before the proposed modification can be implemented.

(f) Subject to the availability of electronic forms, all modifications and related submissions described in this section must be filed electronically through the International Bureau Filing System (IBFS). A list of forms that are available for electronic filing can be found on the IBFS homepage. For information on electronic filing requirements, see part 1, §§ 1.1000 through 1.10018 of this chapter and the IBFS homepage at http://www.fcc.gov/ibfs. See also §§ 63.20 and 63.53.

