(a) The term submitting carrier is generally any telecommunications carrier that requests on the behalf of a subscriber that the subscriber's telecommunications carrier be changed, and seeks to provide retail services to the end user subscriber. A carrier may be treated as a submitting carrier, however, if it is responsible for any unreasonable delays in the submission of carrier change requests or for the submission of unauthorized carrier change requests, including fraudulent authorizations.

(b) The term executing carrier is generally any telecommunications carrier that effects a request that a subscriber's telecommunications carrier be changed. A carrier may be treated as an executing carrier, however, if it is responsible for any unreasonable delays in the execution of carrier changes or for the execution of unauthorized carrier changes, including fraudulent authorizations.

(c) The term authorized carrier is generally any telecommunications carrier that submits a change, on behalf of a subscriber, in the subscriber's selection of a provider of telecommunications service with the subscriber's authorization verified in accordance with the procedures specified in this part.

(d) The term unauthorized carrier is generally any telecommunications carrier that submits a change, on behalf of a subscriber, in the subscriber's selection of a provider of telecommunications service but fails to obtain the subscriber's authorization verified in accordance with the procedures specified in this part.

(e) The term unauthorized change is a change in a subscriber's selection of a provider of telecommunications service that was made without authorization verified in accordance with the verification procedures specified in this part.

(f) The term state commission shall include any state entity with the state-designated authority to resolve the complaints of such state's residents arising out of an allegation that an unauthorized change of a telecommunication service provider has occurred that has elected, in accordance with the requirements of § 64.1110(a), to administer the Federal Communications Commission's slamming rules and remedies, as enumerated in §§ 64.1100 through 64.1190.

(g) The term relevant governmental agency shall be the state commission if the complainant files a complaint with the state commission or if the complaint is forwarded to the state commission by the Federal Communications Commission, and the Federal Communications Commission if the complainant files a complaint with the Federal Communications Commission, and the complaint is not forwarded to a state commission.

(h) The term subscriber is any one of the following:

(1) The party identified in the account records of a common carrier as responsible for payment of the telephone bill;

(2) Any adult person authorized by such party to change telecommunications services or to charge services to the account; or

(3) Any person contractually or otherwise lawfully authorized to represent such party.

