(a) Safeguarding CPNI. Telecommunications carriers must take reasonable measures to discover and protect against attempts to gain unauthorized access to CPNI. Telecommunications carriers must properly authenticate a customer prior to disclosing CPNI based on customer-initiated telephone contact, online account access, or an in-store visit.

(b) Telephone access to CPNI. Telecommunications carriers may only disclose call detail information over the telephone, based on customer-initiated telephone contact, if the customer first provides the carrier with a password, as described in paragraph (e) of this section, that is not prompted by the carrier asking for readily available biographical information, or account information. If the customer does not provide a password, the telecommunications carrier may only disclose call detail information by sending it to the customer's address of record, or by calling the customer at the telephone number of record. If the customer is able to provide call detail information to the telecommunications carrier during a customer-initiated call without the telecommunications carrier's assistance, then the telecommunications carrier is permitted to discuss the call detail information provided by the customer.

(c) Online access to CPNI. A telecommunications carrier must authenticate a customer without the use of readily available biographical information, or account information, prior to allowing the customer online access to CPNI related to a telecommunications service account. Once authenticated, the customer may only obtain online access to CPNI related to a telecommunications service account through a password, as described in paragraph (e) of this section, that is not prompted by the carrier asking for readily available biographical information, or account information.

(d) In-store access to CPNI. A telecommunications carrier may disclose CPNI to a customer who, at a carrier's retail location, first presents to the telecommunications carrier or its agent a valid photo ID matching the customer's account information.

(e) Establishment of a Password and Back-up Authentication Methods for Lost or Forgotten Passwords. To establish a password, a telecommunications carrier must authenticate the customer without the use of readily available biographical information, or account information. Telecommunications carriers may create a back-up customer authentication method in the event of a lost or forgotten password, but such back-up customer authentication method may not prompt the customer for readily available biographical information, or account information. If a customer cannot provide the correct password or the correct response for the back-up customer authentication method, the customer must establish a new password as described in this paragraph.

(f) Notification of account changes. Telecommunications carriers must notify customers immediately whenever a password, customer response to a back-up means of authentication for lost or forgotten passwords, online account, or address of record is created or changed. This notification is not required when the customer initiates service, including the selection of a password at service initiation. This notification may be through a carrier-originated voicemail or text message to the telephone number of record, or by mail to the address of record, and must not reveal the changed information or be sent to the new account information.

(g) Business customer exemption. Telecommunications carriers may bind themselves contractually to authentication regimes other than those described in this section for services they provide to their business customers that have both a dedicated account representative and a contract that specifically addresses the carriers' protection of CPNI.

