To the extent that the information is reasonably available to an IXC, the IXC shall provide to a LEC the customer account information described in this section consistent with ยง 64.4004. Nothing in this section shall prevent an IXC from providing additional customer account information to a LEC to the extent that such additional information is necessary for billing purposes or to properly execute a customer's PIC Order.

(a) IXC-submitted PIC Order. When a customer contacts an IXC to establish interexchange service on a presubscribed basis, the IXC selected must submit the customer's properly verified PIC Order (see 47 CFR 64.1120(a)) to the customer's LEC, instructing the LEC to install or change the PIC for the customer's line(s) to that IXC. The notification provided by the IXC to the LEC must contain all of the information necessary to properly execute the Order including but not limited to:

(1) The customer's billing telephone number or working telephone number associated with the lines or terminals that are to be presubscribed to the IXC;

(2) The date of the IXC-submitted PIC Order;

(3) The jurisdictional scope of the PIC Order (i.e, intraLATA and/or interLATA and/or international); and

(4) The carrier identification code of the submitting IXC.

(b) Customer contacts IXC to cancel PIC and to select no-PIC status. When an end user customer contacts an IXC to discontinue interexchange service on a presubscribed basis, the IXC must confirm that it is the customer's desire to have no PIC and, if that is the case, the IXC must notify the customer's LEC. The IXC also is encouraged to instruct the customer to notify his LEC. An IXC may satisfy this requirement by establishing a three-way call with the customer and the customer's LEC to confirm that it is the customer's desire to have no PIC and, where appropriate, to provide the customer the opportunity to withdraw any PIC freeze that may be in place. The notification provided by the IXC to the LEC must contain the customer account information necessary to properly execute the cancellation Order including but not limited to:

(1) The customer's billing telephone number or working telephone number associated with the lines or terminals that are affected;

(2) The date of the IXC-submitted PIC removal Order;

(3) The jurisdictional scope of the PIC removal Order (i.e., intraLATA and/or interLATA and/or international); and

(4) The carrier identification code of the submitting IXC.

