(a) Default provider registration. Every provider of VRS or IP Relay must, no later than December 31, 2008, provide users with the capability to register with that VRS or IP Relay provider as a “default provider.” Upon a user's registration, the VRS or IP Relay provider shall:

(1) Either:

(i) Facilitate the user's valid number portability request as set forth in 47 CFR 52.34; or, if the user does not wish to port a number,

(ii) Assign that user a geographically appropriate North American Numbering Plan telephone number; and

(2) Route and deliver all of that user's inbound and outbound calls unless the user chooses to place a call with, or receives a call from, an alternate provider.

(b) Mandatory registration of new users. As of December 31, 2008, VRS and IP Relay providers must, prior to the initiation of service for an individual that has not previously utilized VRS or IP Relay, register that new user as described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Obligations of default providers and former default providers. (1) Default providers must:

(i) Obtain current routing information, including IP addresses or domain names and user names, from their Registered Internet-based TRS Users;

(ii) Provision such information to the TRS Numbering Directory; and

(iii) Maintain such information in their internal databases and in the TRS Numbering Directory.

(2) Internet-based TRS providers (and, to the extent necessary, their Numbering Partners) must:

(i) Take such steps as are necessary to cease acquiring routing information from any VRS or IP Relay user that ports his or her number to another VRS or IP Relay provider or otherwise selects a new default provider;

(ii) Communicate among themselves as necessary to ensure that:
                                    

(A) Only the default provider provisions routing information to the central database; and

(B) VRS and IP Relay providers other than the default provider are aware that they must query the TRS Numbering Directory in order to obtain accurate routing information for a particular user of VRS or IP Relay.

(d) Proxy numbers. After December 31, 2008, a VRS or IP Relay provider:

(1) May not assign or issue a proxy or alias for a NANP telephone number to any user; and

(2) Must cease to use any proxy or alias for a NANP telephone number assigned or issued to any Registered Internet-based TRS User.

(e) CPE. (1) Every VRS or IP Relay provider must ensure that all CPE they have issued, leased, or otherwise provided to VRS or IP Relay users delivers routing information or other information only to the user's default provider, except as is necessary to complete or receive “dial around” calls on a case-by-case basis.

(2) All CPE issued, leased, or otherwise provided to VRS or IP Relay users by Internet-based TRS providers must be capable of facilitating the requirements of this section.

(f) User notification. Every VRS or IP Relay provider must include an advisory on its website and in any promotional materials addressing numbering or E911 services for VRS or IP Relay.

(1) At a minimum, the advisory must address the following issues:

(i) The process by which VRS or IP Relay users may obtain ten-digit telephone numbers, including a brief summary of the numbering assignment and administration processes adopted herein;

(ii) The portability of ten-digit telephone numbers assigned to VRS or IP Relay users;

(iii) The process by which persons using VRS or IP Relay may submit, update, and confirm receipt by the provider of their Registered Location information; and

(iv) An explanation emphasizing the importance of maintaining accurate, up-to-date Registered Location information with the user's default provider in the event that the individual places an emergency call via an Internet-based relay service.

(2) VRS and IP Relay providers must obtain and keep a record of affirmative acknowledgment by every Registered Internet-based TRS User of having received and understood the advisory described in this subsection.

