(a) TRS Numbering Directory. (1) The TRS Numbering Directory shall contain records mapping the NANP telephone number of each Registered Internet-based TRS User to a unique Uniform Resource Identifier (URI).

(2) For each record associated with a VRS user, the URI shall contain the user's Internet Protocol (IP) address. For each record associated with an IP Relay user, the URI shall contain the user's user name and domain name that can be subsequently resolved to reach the user.

(3) Only the TRS Numbering Administrator and Internet-based TRS providers may access the TRS Numbering Directory.

(b) Administration—(1) Neutrality. (i) The TRS Numbering Administrator shall be a non-governmental entity that is impartial and not an affiliate of any Internet-based TRS provider.

(ii) Neither the TRS Numbering Administrator nor any affiliate may issue a majority of its debt to, nor derive a majority of its revenues from, any Internet-based TRS provider.

(iii) Nor may the TRS Numbering Administrator nor any affiliate be unduly influenced, as determined by the North American Numbering Council, by parties with a vested interest in the outcome of TRS-related numbering administration and activities.

(iv) Any subcontractor that performs any function of the TRS Numbering Administrator must also meet these neutrality criteria.

(2) Terms of Administration. The TRS Numbering Administrator shall administer the TRS Numbering Directory pursuant to the terms of its contract.

(3) Compensation. The TRS Fund, as defined by 47 CFR 64.604(a)(5)(iii), may compensate the TRS Numbering Administrator for the reasonable costs of administration pursuant to the terms of its contract.

