(a) Informational tariffs filed pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 226(h)(1)(A) shall contain specific rates expressed in dollars and cents for each interstate operator service of the carrier and shall also contain applicable per call aggregator surcharges or other per-call fees, if any, collected from consumers by, or on behalf of, the carrier.

(b) Per call fees, if any, billed on behalf of aggregators or others, shall be specified in informational tariffs in dollars and cents.

(c) In order to remove all doubt as to their proper application, all informational tariffs must contain clear and explicit explanatory statements regarding the rates, i.e., the tariffed price per unit of service, and the regulations governing the offering of service in that tariff.

(d) Informational tariffs shall be accompanied by a cover letter, addressed to the Secretary of the Commission, explaining the purpose of the filing.

(1) The original of the cover letter shall be submitted to the Secretary without attachments, along with FCC Form 159, and the appropriate fee to the address set forth in § 1.1105 of this chapter.

(2) Carriers should file informational tariffs and associated documents, such as cover letters and attachments, electronically in accordance with §§ 61.13 and 61.14 of this chapter.

(e) Any changes to the tariff shall be submitted under a new cover letter with a complete copy of the tariff, including changes.

(1) Changes to a tariff shall be explained in the cover letter but need not be symbolized on the tariff pages.
                                    

(2) Revised tariffs shall be filled pursuant to the procedures specified in this section.

