(a) Each provider of operator services shall:

(1) Identify itself, audibly and distinctly, to the consumer at the beginning of each telephone call and before the consumer incurs any charge for the call;

(2) Permit the consumer to terminate the telephone call at no charge before the call is connected;

(3) Disclose immediately to the consumer, upon request and at no charge to the consumer—

(i) A quotation of its rates or charges for the call;

(ii) The methods by which such rates or charges will be collected; and

(iii) The methods by which complaints concerning such rates, charges, or collection practices will be resolved; and

(4) Disclose, audibly and distinctly to the consumer, at no charge and before connecting any interstate non-access code operator service call, how to obtain the total cost of the call, including any aggregator surcharge, or the maximum possible total cost of the call, including any aggregator surcharge, before providing further oral advice to the consumer on how to proceed to make the call. The oral disclosure required in this subsection shall instruct consumers that they may obtain applicable rate and surcharge quotations either, at the option of the provider of operator services, by dialing no more than two digits or by remaining on the line. The phrase “total cost of the call” as used in this paragraph means both the variable (duration-based) charges for the call and the total per-call charges, exclusive of taxes, that the carrier, or its billing agent, may collect from the consumer for the call. It does not include additional charges that may be assessed and collected without the involvement of the carrier, such as a hotel surcharge billed by a hotel. Such charges are addressed in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) Each aggregator shall post on or near the telephone instrument, in plain view of consumers:

(1) The name, address, and toll-free telephone number of the provider of operator services;

(2) Except for CMRS aggregators, a written disclosure that the rates for all operator-assisted calls are available on request, and that consumers have a right to obtain access to the interstate common carrier of their choice and may contact their preferred interstate common carriers for information on accessing that carrier's service using that telephone;

(3) In the case of a pay telephone, the local coin rate for the pay telephone location; and

(4) The name and address of the Consumer Information Bureau of the Commission (Federal Communications Commission, Consumer Information Bureau, Consumer Complaints—Telephone, Washington, D.C. 20554), to which the consumer may direct complaints regarding operator services. An existing posting that displays the address that was required prior to the amendment of this rules (i.e., the address of the Common Carrier Bureau's Enforcement Division, which no longer exists) may remain until such time as the posting is replaced for any other purpose. Any posting made after the effective date of this amendment must display the updated address (i.e., the address of the Consumer Information Bureau).

(c) Updating of postings. The posting required by this section shall be updated as soon as practicable following any change of the carrier presubscribed to provide interstate service at an aggregator location, but no later than 30 days following such change. This requirement may be satisfied by applying to a payphone a temporary sticker displaying the required posting information, provided that any such temporary sticker shall be replaced with permanent signage during the next regularly scheduled maintenance visit.

(d) Effect of state law or regulation. The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to an aggregator in any case in which State law or State regulation requires the aggregator to take actions that are substantially the same as those required in paragraph (b) of this section.

(e) Each provider of operator services shall ensure, by contract or tariff, that each aggregator for which such provider is the presubscribed provider of operator services is in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.

