(a) There is no obligation upon a carrier to extend unsecured credit for interstate and foreign communication services to a candidate or person on behalf of such candidate for Federal office. However, if the carrier chooses to extend such unsecured credit, it shall comply with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.

(b) If a carrier decides to extend unsecured credit to any candidate for Federal office or any person on behalf of such candidate, then unsecured credit shall be extended on substantially equal terms and conditions to all candidates and all persons on behalf of all candidates for the same office, with due regard for differences in the estimated quantity of service to be furnished each such candidate or person.

(c) Before extending unsecured credit, a carrier shall obtain a signed written application for service which shall identify the applicant and the candidate and state whether or not the candidate assumes responsibility for the charges, and which shall also expressly state as follows:

(1) That service is being requested by the applicant or applicants and that the person or persons making the application will be individually, jointly and severally liable for the payment of all charges; and

(2) That the applicant(s) understands that the carrier will (under the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section) discontinue service upon written notice if any amount due is not paid upon demand.

(d) If charges for services rendered are not paid to the carrier within 15 days from rendition of a bill therefor, the carrier shall forthwith at the end of the 15-day period serve written notice on the applicant of intent to discontinue service within 7 days of date of such notice for nonpayment and shall discontinue service at the end of the 7-day period unless all such sums due are paid in full within such 7-day period.

(e) Each carrier shall take appropriate action at law to collect any unpaid balance on an account for interstate and foreign communication services rendered to a candidate or person on behalf of such candidate prior to the expiration of the statute of limitations under section 415(a) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.
              

(f) The records of each account, involving the extension by a carrier of unsecured credit to a candidate or person on behalf of such candidate for common carrier communications services shall be maintained by the carrier so as to show separately, for interstate and foreign communication services all charges, credits, adjustments, and security, if any, and balance receivable.

(g) On or before January 31, 1973, and on corresponding dates of each year thereafter, each carrier which had operating revenues in the preceding year in excess of $1 million shall file with the Commission a report by account of any amount due and unpaid, as of the end of the month prior to the reporting date, for interstate and foreign communications services to a candidate or person on behalf of such candidate when such amount results from the extension of unsecured credit. Each report shall include the following information:

(1) Name of candidate.

(2) Name and address of person or persons applying for service.

(3) Balance due carrier.

(4) Reason for nonpayment.

(5) Payment arrangements, if any.

(6) Date service discontinued.

(7) Date, nature and status of any action taken at law in compliance with paragraph (e) of this section.

