(a) Each carrier required to file a cost allocation manual shall elect to either have an attest engagement performed by an independent auditor every two years, covering the prior two year period, or have a financial audit performed by an independent auditor every two years, covering the prior two year period. In either case, the initial engagement shall be performed in the calendar year after the carrier is first required to file a cost allocation manual.

(b) The attest engagement shall be an examination engagement and shall provide a written communication that expresses an opinion that the systems, processes, and procedures applied by the carrier to generate the results reported pursuant to § 43.21(e)(2) of this chapter comply with the Commission's Joint Cost Orders issued in conjunction with CC Docket No. 86-111, the Commission's Accounting Safeguards proceeding in CC Docket No. 96-150, and the Commission's rules and regulations including §§ 32.23 and 32.27 of this chapter, and §§ 64.901, and 64.903 in force as of the date of the auditor's report. At least 30 days prior to beginning the attestation engagement, the independent auditors shall provide the Commission with the audit program. The attest engagement shall be conducted in accordance with the attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, except as otherwise directed by the Chief, Enforcement Bureau.

(c) The biennial financial audit shall provide a positive opinion on whether the applicable date shown in the carrier's annual report required by § 43.21(e)(2) of this chapter present fairly, in all material respects, the information of the Commission's Joint Cost Orders issued in conjunction with CC Docket No. 86-111, the Commission's Accounting Safeguards proceeding in CC Docket No. 96-150, and the Commission's rules and regulations including §§ 32.23 and 32.27 of this chapter, and §§ 64.901, and 64.903 in force as of the date of the auditor's report. The audit shall be conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, except as otherwise directed by the Chief, Enforcement Bureau. The report of the independent auditor shall be filed at the time that the carrier files the annual reports required by § 43.21(e)(2) of this chapter.

