(a) Participants shall file with each rate of return submission copies of all information, including studies, financial analysts' reports, and any other documents relied upon by participants or their experts in the preparation of their submission. Information filed pursuant to this paragraph for which protection from disclosure is sought shall be filed subject to protective orders which shall be duly granted by the Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, for good cause shown.

(b) Participants may file written interrogatories and requests for documents directed to any rate of return submission and not otherwise filed pursuant to § 65.105(a). The permissible scope of examination is that participants may be examined upon any matter, not privileged, that will demonstrably lead to the production of material, relevant, decisionally significant evidence.

(c) Discovery requests pursuant to § 65.105(b), including written interrogatories, shall be filed within 14 calendar days after the filing of the rate of return submission to which the request is directed. Discovery requests that are not opposed shall be complied with within 14 calendar days of the request date.

(d) Oppositions to discovery requests made pursuant to § 65.105(b), including written interrogatories, shall be filed within 7 calendar days after requests are filed. The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, shall rule upon any such opposition. Except as stayed by the Commission or a Court, any required response to a discovery request that is opposed shall be provided within 14 calendar days after release of the ruling of the Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau.

(e) An original and 4 copies of all information described in § 65.105(a) and all requests, oppositions, and responses made pursuant to § 65.105 (a), (b) and (d) shall be filed with the Secretary.

(f) Service of requests, oppositions, and responses made pursuant to § 65.105 (b) and (d) shall be made upon all participants who have filed a designation of service notice pursuant to § 65.100(b). Service of requests upon participants who have filed designation of service notices pursuant to § 65.100(b) shall be made by hand on the filing dates thereof.

