(a) Rate of return submissions listed in ยง 65.103 (b)(1) and (c) may include any relevant information, subject to the page limitations of ยง 65.104. The Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau, may require from carriers providing interstate services, and from other participants submitting rate of return submissions, data, studies or other information that are reasonably calculated to lead to a full and fair record.

(b) In proceedings to prescribe an authorized unitary rate of return on interstate access services, interested parties may file direct case submissions, responses, and rebuttals. Direct case submissions shall be filed within sixty (60) calendar days following the effective date of a Commission notice initiating a rate of return proceeding pursuant to ยง 65.101(b). Rate of return submissions responsive to the direct case submissions shall be filed within sixty (60) calendar days after the deadline for filing direct case submissions. Rebuttal submissions shall be field within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the deadline for filing responsive submissions.

(c) Petitions for exclusion from unitary treatment and for individual treatment may be filed on the same date as the deadline for filing responsive rate of return submissions. Oppositions shall be filed within 35 calendar days thereafter. Rebuttal submissions shall be filed within 21 calendar days after the deadline for filing responsive submissions.

(d) An original and 4 copies of all rate of return submissions shall be filed with the Secretary.

(e) The filing party shall serve a copy of each rate of return submission, other than an initial submission, on all participants who have filed a designation of service notice pursuant to ยง 65.100(b).

