(a) Subpart E shall apply to those interstate communications common carriers and exchange carriers that are so designated by Commission order.

(b) Each local exchange carrier or group of affiliated carriers which is not subject to §§ 61.41 through 61.49 of this chapter and which has filed individual access tariffs during the preceding enforcement period shall file with the Commission within three (3) months after the end of each calendar year, an annual rate of return monitoring report which shall be the enforcement period report. Reports shall be filed on the appropriate report form prescribed by the Commission (see § 1.795 of this chapter) and shall provide full and specific answers to all questions propounded and information requested in the currently effective report form. The number of copies to be filed shall be specified in the applicable report form. At least one copy of the report shall be signed on the signature page by the responsible officer. A copy of each report shall be retained in the principal office of the respondent and shall be filed in such a manner as to be readily available for reference and inspection. Final adjustments to the enforcement period report shall be made by September 30 of the year following the enforcement period to ensure that any refunds can be properly reflected in an annual access filing.

(c) Each interexchange carrier subject to §§ 61.41 through 61.49 shall file with the Commission, within three (3) months after the end of each calendar year, the total interstate rate of return for that year for all interstate services subject to regulation by the Commission. Each such filing shall include a report of the total revenues, total expenses and taxes, operating income, and the rate base. A copy of the filing shall be retained in the principal office of the respondent and shall be filed in such manner as to be readily available for reference and inspection.

(d)(1) Each local exchange carrier or group of affiliated carriers subject to §§ 61.41 through 61.49 of this chapter shall file with the Commission within three (3) months after the end of each calendar year a report of its total interstate rate of return for that year. Such filings shall include a report of the total revenues, total expenses and taxes, operating income, and the rate base. Reports shall be filed on the appropriate form prescribed by the Commission (see § 1.795 of this chapter) and shall provide full and specific answers to all questions propounded and information requested in the currently effective form. The number of copies to be filed shall be specified in the applicable report form. At least one copy of the report shall be retained in the principal office of the respondent and shall be filed in such manner as to be readily available for reference and inspection.

(2) Each local exchange carrier or group of affiliated carriers subject to §§ 61.41 through 61.49 of this chapter shall file with the Commission within fifteen (15) months after the end of each calendar year a report reflecting any corrections or modifications to the report filed pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Reports shall be filed on the appropriate form prescribed by the Commission (see § 1.795 of this chapter) and shall provide full and specific answers to all questions propounded and information requested in the currently effective form. The number of copies to be filed shall be specified in the applicable report form. At least one copy of the report shall be retained in the principal office of the respondent and shall be filed in such manner as to be readily available for reference and inspection.

