(a) Telecommunications plant. The interstate portion of all assets summarized in Account 2001 (Telecommunications Plant in Service) and Account 2002 (Property Held for Future Use), net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, and Account 2003 (Telecommunications Plant Under Construction), and, to the extent such inclusions are allowed by this Commission, Account 2005 (Telecommunications Plant Adjustment). Any interest cost for funds used during construction capitalized on assets recorded in these accounts shall be computed in accordance with the procedures in Sec. 32.2000(c)(2)(x) of this chapter.

(b) Material and supplies. The interstate portion of assets summarized in Account 1220.1 (Material and Supplies).

(c) Noncurrent assets. The interstate portion of Class B Rural Telephone Bank stock contained in Account 1410 and the interstate portion of assets summarized in Account 1410 (Other Noncurrent Assets) and Account 1438 (Deferred Maintenance, Retirements and Deferred Charges), only to the extent that they have been specifically approved by this Commission for inclusion (Note: The interstate portion of assets summarized in Account 1410 should not include any amounts related to investments, sinking funds or unamortized debt issuance expense). Except as noted above, no amounts from accounts 1406 through 1500 shall be included.

(d) Cash working capital. The average amount of investor-supplied capital needed to provide funds for a carrier's day-to-day interstate operations. Class A carriers may calculate a cash working capital allowance either by performing a lead-lag study of interstate revenue and expense items or by using the formula set forth in paragraph (e) of this section. Class B carriers, in lieu of performing a lead-lag study or using the formula in paragraph (e) of this section, may calculate the cash working capital allowance using a standard allowance which will be established annually by the Chief, Wireline Competition Bureau. When either the lead-lag study or formula method is used to calculate cash working capital, the amount calculated under the study or formula may be increased by minimum bank balances and working cash advances to determine the cash working capital allowance. Once a carrier has selected a method of determining its cash working capital allowance, it shall not change to an optional method from one year to the next without Commission approval.

(e) In lieu of a full lead-lag study, carriers may calculate the cash working capital allowance using the following formula.

(1) Compute the weighted average revenue lag days as follows:

(i) Multiply the average revenue lag days for interstate revenues billed in arrears by the percentage of interstate revenues billed in arrears.

(ii) Multiply the average revenue lag days for interstate revenues billed in advance by the percentage of interstate revenues billed in advance. (Note: a revenue lead should be shown as a negative lag.)

(iii) Add the results of paragraphs (e)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section to determine the weighted average revenue lag days.

(2) Compute the weighted average expense lag days as follows:

(i) Multiply the average lag days for interstate expenses (i.e., cash operating expenses plus interest) paid in arrears by the percentage of interstate expenses paid in arrears.

(ii) Multiply the average lag days for interstate expenses paid in advance by the percentage of interstate expenses paid in advance. (Note: an expense lead should be shown as a negative lag.)

(iii) Add the results of paragraphs (e)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section to determine the weighted average expense lag days.

(3) Compute the weighted net lag days by deducting the weighted average expense lag days from the weighted average revenue lag days.

(4) Compute the percentage of a year represented by the weighted net lag days by dividing the days computed in paragraph (e)(3) of this section by 365 days.
              

(5) Compute the cash working capital allowance by multiplying the interstate cash operating expenses (i.e., operating expenses minus depreciation and amortization) plus interest by the percentage computed in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

