(a) General. Registered terminal equipment for connection to those services discussed below must incorporate the specified features.

(b) Registered terminal equipment with automatic dialing capability. (1) Automatic dialing to any individual number is limited to two successive attempts. Automatic dialing equipment which employ means for detecting both busy and reorder signals shall be permitted an additional 13 attempts if a busy or reorder signal is encountered on each attempt. The dialer shall be unable to re-attempt a call to the same number for at least 60 minutes following either the second or fifteenth successive attempt, whichever applies, unless the dialer is reactivated by either manual or external means. This rule does not apply to manually activated dialers that dial a number once following each activation.
              

(2) If means are employed for detecting both busy and reorder signals, the automatic dialing equipment shall return to its on-hook state within 15 seconds after detection of a busy or reorder signal.

(3) If the called party does not answer, the automatic dialer shall return to the on-hook state within 60 seconds of completion of dialing.

(4) If the called party answers, and the calling equipment does not detect a compatible terminal equipment at the called end, then the automatic dialing equipment shall be limited to one additional call which is answered. The automatic dialing equipment shall comply with paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section for additional call attempts that are not answered.

(5) Sequential dialers shall dial only once to any individual number before proceeding to dial another number.

(6) Network addressing signals shall be transmitted no earlier than:

(i) 70 ms after receipt of dial tone at the network demarcation point; or

(ii) 600 ms after automatically going off-hook (for single line equipment that does not use dial tone detectors); or

(iii) 70 ms after receipt of CO ground start at the network demarcation point.

(c) Line seizure by automatic telephone dialing systems. Automatic telephone dialing systems which deliver a recorded message to the called party must release the called party's telephone line within 5 seconds of the time notification is transmitted to the system that the called party has hung up, to allow the called party's line to be used to make or receive other calls.

(d) Telephone facsimile machines; Identification of the sender of the message. It shall be unlawful for any person within the United States to use a computer or other electronic device to send any message via a telephone facsimile machine unless such person clearly marks, in a margin at the top or bottom of each transmitted page of the message or on the first page of the transmission, the date and time it is sent and an identification of the business, other entity, or individual sending the message and the telephone number of the sending machine or of such business, other entity, or individual. If a facsimile broadcaster demonstrates a high degree of involvement in the sender's facsimile messages, such as supplying the numbers to which a message is sent, that broadcaster's name, under which it is registered to conduct business with the State Corporation Commission (or comparable regulatory authority), must be identified on the facsimile, along with the sender's name. Telephone facsimile machines manufactured on and after December 20, 1992, must clearly mark such identifying information on each transmitted page.

(e) Requirement that registered equipment allow access to common carriers. Any equipment or software manufactured or imported on or after April 17, 1992, and installed by any aggregator shall be technologically capable of providing consumers with access to interstate providers of operator services through the use of equal access codes. The terms used in this paragraph shall have meanings defined in ยง 64.708 of this chapter (47 CFR 64.708).

