(a) This section is applicable only to incumbent local exchange carriers that are not subject to price cap regulation as that term is defined in § 61.3(ee) of this chapter. A charge that is expressed in dollars and cents per line per month shall be assessed upon end users that subscribe to local exchange telephone service or Centrex service to the extent they do not pay carrier common line charges. A charge that is expressed in dollars and cents per line per month shall be assessed upon providers of public telephones. Such charges shall be assessed for each line between the premises of an end user, or public telephone location, and a Class 5 office that is or may be used for local exchange service transmissions.

(b) Charges to multi-line subscribers shall be computed by multiplying a single line rate by the number of lines used by such subscriber.

(c) Until December 31, 2001, except as provided in paragraphs (d) through (h) of this section, the single-line rate or charge shall be computed by dividing one-twelfth of the projected annual revenue requirement for the End User Common Line element by the projected average number of local exchange service subscriber lines in use during such annual period.

(d)(1) Until December 31, 2001, if the monthly charge computed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section exceeds $6, the charge for each local exchange service subscriber line, except a residential line, a single-line business line, or a line used for Centrex-CO service that was in place or on order as of July 27, 1983, shall be $6.

(2) Until December 31, 2001, the charge for each subscriber line associated with a public telephone shall be equal to the monthly charge computed in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(e) Until December 31, 2001, the monthly charge for each residential and single-line business local exchange service subscriber shall be the charge computed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, or $3.50, whichever is lower.

(f) Except as provided in § 54.403 of this chapter, the charge for each residential local exchange service subscriber line shall be the same as the charge for each single-line business local exchange service subscriber line.

(g) A line shall be deemed to be a residential line if the subscriber pays a rate for such line that is described as a residential rate in the local exchange service tariff.

(h) A line shall be deemed to be a single line business line if the subscriber pays a rate that is not described as a residential rate in the local exchange service tariff and does not obtain more than one such line from a particular telephone company.

(i) The End User Common Line charge for each multi-party subscriber shall be assessed as if such subscriber had subscribed to single-party service.

(j)-(l) [Reserved]
              

(m) No charge shall be assessed for any WATS access line.

(n)(1) Beginning January 1, 2002, except as provided in paragraph (r) of this section, the maximum monthly charge for each residential or single-line business local exchange service subscriber line shall be the lesser of:

(i) One-twelfth of the projected annual revenue requirement for the End User Common Line element divided by the projected average number of local exchange service subscriber lines in use during such annual period; or

(ii) The following:

(A) Beginning January 1, 2002, $5.00.

(B) Beginning July 1, 2002, $6.00.

(C) Beginning July 1, 2003, $6.50.

(2) In the event that GDP-PI exceeds 6.5% or is less than 0%, the maximum monthly charge in paragraph (n)(1)(ii) of this section will be adjusted in the same manner as the adjustment in § 69.152(d)(2).

(o)(1) Beginning on January 1, 2002, except as provided in paragraph (r) of this section, the maximum monthly End User Common Line Charge for multi-line business lines will be the lesser of:

(i) $9.20; or

(ii) One-twelfth of the projected annual revenue requirement for the End User Common Line element divided by the projected average number of local exchange service subscriber lines in use during such annual period;

(2) In the event that GDP-PI is greater than 6.5% or is less than 0%, the maximum monthly charge in paragraph (o)(1)(i) of this section will be adjusted in the same manner as the adjustment in § 69.152(k)(2).

(p) Beginning January 1, 2002, non-price cap local exchange carriers shall assess:

(1) No more than one End User Common Line charge as calculated under the applicable method under paragraph (n) of this section for Basic Rate Interface integrated services digital network (ISDN) service.

(2) No more than five End User Common Line charges as calculated under paragraph (o) of this section for Primary Rate Interface ISDN service.

(q) In the event a non-price cap local exchange carrier charges less than the maximum End User Common Line charge for any subscriber lines, the carrier may not recover the difference between the amount collected and the maximum from carrier common line charges, Interstate Common Line Support, or Long Term Support.

(r) End User Common Line charge deaveraging. Beginning on January 1, 2002, non-price cap local exchange carriers may geographically deaverage End User Common Line charges subject to the following conditions.

(1) In order for a non-price cap local exchange carrier to be allowed to deaverage End User Common Line charges within a study area, the non-price cap local exchange carrier must have:

(i) State commission-approved geographically deaveraged rates for UNE loops within that study area; or

(ii) A universal service support disaggregation plan established pursuant to § 54.315 of this chapter.

(2) All geographic deaveraging of End User Common Line charges by customer class within a study area must be according to the state commission-approved UNE loop zone, or the universal service support disaggregation plan established pursuant to § 54.315 of this chapter.

(3) Within a given zone, Multi-line Business End User Common Line rates cannot fall below Residential and Single-Line Business rates.

(4) For any given class of customer in any given zone, the End User Common Line Charge in that zone must be greater than or equal to the End User Common Line charge in the zone with the next lower cost per line.

(5) A non-price cap local exchange carrier shall not receive more through deaveraged End User Common Line charges than it would have received if it had not deaveraged its End User Common Line charges.

(6) Maximum charge. The maximum zone deaveraged End User Common Line Charge that may be charged in any zone is the applicable cap specified in paragraphs (n) or (o) of this section.

(7) Voluntary Reductions. A “Voluntary Reduction” is one in which the non-price cap local exchange carrier charges End User Common Line rates below the maximum charges specified in paragraphs (n)(1) or (o)(1) of this section other than through offset of net increases in End User Common Line charge revenues or through increases in other zone deaveraged End User Common Line charges.

