(a)(1) Incumbent local exchange carriers not subject to price cap regulation may establish any number of density zones within a study area that is used for purposes of jurisdictional separations, provided that each zone, except the highest-cost zone, accounts for at least 15 percent of that carrier's special access and transport revenues within that study area, calculated pursuant to the methodology set forth in § 69.725.

(2) Such a system of pricing zones shall be designed to reasonably reflect cost-related characteristics, such as the density of total interstate traffic in central offices located in the respective zones.

(3) Non-price cap incumbent local exchange carriers may establish only one set of density pricing zones within each study area, to be used for the pricing of both special and switched access pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(b)(1) Incumbent local exchange carriers subject to price cap regulation may establish any number of density zones within a study area that is used for purposes of jurisdictional separations, provided that each zone, except the highest-cost zone, accounts for at least 15 percent of that carrier's trunking basket revenues within that study area, calculated pursuant to the methodology set forth in § 69.725.

(2) Price cap incumbent local exchange carriers may establish only one set of density pricing zones within each study area, to be used for the pricing of all services within the trunking basket for which zone density pricing is permitted.

(3) An access service subelement for which zone density pricing is permitted shall be deemed to be offered in the zone that contains the telephone company location from which the service is provided.

(4) An access service subelement for which zone density pricing is permitted which is provided to a customer between telephone company locations shall be deemed to be offered in the highest priced zone that contains one of the locations between which the service is offered.

(c) Notwithstanding § 69.3(e)(7), in study areas in which a telephone company offers a cross-connect, as described in § 69.121(a)(1), for the transmission of interstate special access traffic, telephone companies may charge rates for special access sub-elements of DS1, DS3, and such other special access services as the Commission may designate, that differ depending on the zone in which the service is offered, provided that the charges for any such service shall not be deaveraged within any such zone.

(1) A special access service subelement shall be deemed to be offered in the zone that contains the telephone company location from which the service is provided.

(2) A special access service subelement provided to a customer between telephone company locations shall be deemed to be offered in the highest priced zone that contains one of the locations between which the service is offered.

(d) Notwithstanding § 69.3(e)(7), in study areas in which a telephone company offers a cross-connect, as described in § 69.121(a)(1), for the transmission of interstate switched traffic, or is using collocated facilities to interconnect with telephone company interstate switched transport services, telephone companies may charge rates for sub-elements of direct-trunked transport, tandem-switched transport, entrance facilities, and dedicated signaling transport that differ depending on the zone in which the service is offered, provided that the charge for any such service shall not be deaveraged within any such zone.

(1) A switched transport service subelement shall be deemed to be offered in the zone that contains the telephone company location from which the service is provided.

(2) A switched transport service subelement provided to a customer between telephone company locations shall be deemed to be offered in the highest priced zone that contains either of the locations between which the service is offered.

(e)(1) Telephone companies not subject to price cap regulation may charge a rate for each service in the highest priced zone that exceeds the rate for the same service in the lowest priced zone by no more than fifteen percent of the rate for the service in the lowest priced zone during the period from the date that the zones are initially established through the following June 30. The difference between the rates for any such service in the highest priced zone and the lowest priced zone in a study area, measured as a percentage of the rate for the service in the lowest priced zone, may increase by no more than an additional fifteen percentage points in each succeeding year, measured from the rate differential in effect on the last day of the preceding tariff year.

(2) Notwithstanding § 69.3(e)(7), incumbent local exchange carriers subject to price cap regulation may charge different rates for services in different zones pursuant to § 61.47(f) of this chapter, provided that the charges for any such service are not deaveraged within any such zone.

(f)(1) An incumbent local exchange carrier that establishes density pricing zones under this section must reallocate additional amounts recovered under the interconnection charge prescribed in § 69.124 of this subpart to facilities-based transport rates, to reflect the higher costs of serving lower density areas. Each incumbent local exchange carrier must reallocate costs from the interexchange charge each time it increases the ratio between the prices in its lowest-cost zone and any other zone in that study area.

(2) Any incumbent local exchange carrier that has already deaveraged its rates on January 1, 1998 must reallocate an amount equivalent to that described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section from the interconnection charge prescribed in § 69.124 to its transport services.

(3) Price cap local exchange carriers shall reassign to direct-trunked transport and tandem-switched transport categories or subcategories interconnection charge amounts reallocated under paragraph (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section in a manner that reflects the way density pricing zones are being implemented by the incumbent local exchange carrier.

