(a) Charges that are computed in accordance with this section shall be assessed upon interexchange carriers or other persons that receive access that is not deemed to be premium access as this term in defined in § 69.105(b)(1) in lieu of carrier charges that are computed in accordance with §§ 69.105, 69.106, 69.118, 69.124, and 69.127.

(b) The non-premium charge for the Carrier Common Line element shall be computed by multiplying the premium charge for such element by .45.

(c) For telephone companies that are not subject to price cap regulation as that term is defined in § 61.3(x) of this chapter, the non-premium charge for the Local Switching element shall be computed by multiplying a hypothetical premium charge for such element by .45. The hypothetical premium charge for such element shall be computed by dividing the annual revenue requirement for each element by the sum of the projected access minutes for such period and a number that is computed by multiplying the projected non-premium minutes for such element for such period by .45. For telephone companies that are price cap carriers, the non-premium charge for the Local Switching element shall be computed by multiplying the premium charge for such element by .45. Though June 30, 1993, the non-premium charge shall be computed by multiplying the LS2 charge for such element by .45.

(d) The non-premium charge or charges for the interconnection charge element shall be computed by multiplying the corresponding premium charge or charges by .45.

(e) The non-premium charge for any BSEs in local switching shall be computed by multiplying the premium charge for the corresponding BSEs by .45.

