(a) A flat-rated entrance facilities charge expressed in dollars and cents per unit of capacity shall be assessed upon all interexchange carriers and other persons that use telephone company facilities between the interexchange carrier or other person's point of demarcation and the serving wire center.

(b)(1) For telephone companies subject to price cap regulation, initial entrance facilities charges based on special access channel termination rates for equivalent voice grade, DS1, and DS3 services as of September 1, 1992, adjusted for changes in the price cap index calculated for the July 1, 1993 annual filing for telephone companies subject to price cap regulation, generally shall be presumed reasonable if the benchmark defined in § 69.108 is satisfied. Entrance facilities charges may be distance-sensitive. Distance shall be measured as airline kilometers between the point of demarcation and the serving wire center.

(2) For telephone companies not subject to price cap regulation, entrance facilities charges based on special access channel termination rates for equivalent voice grade, DS1, and DS3 services generally shall be presumed reasonable if the benchmark defined in § 69.108 is satisfied. Entrance facilities charges may be distance-sensitive. Distance shall be measured as airline kilometers between the point of demarcation and the serving wire center.

(c) If the telephone company employs distance-sensitive rates:

(1) A distance-sensitive component shall be assessed for use of the transmission facilities, including any intermediate transmission circuit equipment between the end points of the entrance facilities; and
                                    

(2) A nondistance-sensitive component shall be assessed for use of the circuit equipment at the ends of the transmission links.

(d) Telephone companies shall apply only their shortest term special access rates in setting entrance facilities charges.

(e) Except as provided in paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section, and subpart H of this part, telephone companies shall not offer entrance facilities based on term discounts or volume discounts for multiple DS3s or any other service with higher volume than DS3.

(f) Except in the situations set forth in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, telephone companies may offer term and volume discounts in entrance facilities charges within each study area used for the purpose of jurisdictional separations, in which interconnectors have taken either:

(1) At least 100 DS1-equivalent cross-connects for the transmission of switched traffic (as described in § 69.121(a)(1) of this chapter) in offices in the study area that the telephone company has assigned to the lowest priced density pricing zone (zone 1) under an approved density pricing zone plan as described in §§ 61.38(b)(4) and 61.49(k) of this chapter; or

(2) An average of at least 25 DS1-equivalent cross-connects for the transmission of switched traffic per office assigned to the lowest priced density pricing zone (zone 1).

(g) In study areas in which the telephone company has implemented density zone pricing, but no offices have been assigned to the lowest price density pricing zone (zone 1), telephone companies may offer term and volume discounts in entrance facilities charges within the study area when interconnectors have taken at least 5 DS1-equivalent cross-connects for the transmission of switched traffic (as described in § 69.121(a)(1) of this chapter) in offices in the study area.

(h) In study areas in which the telephone company has not implemented density zone pricing, telephone companies may offer term and volume discounts in entrance facilities charges when interconnectors have taken at least 100 DS1-equivalent cross-connects for the transmission of switched traffic (as described in § 69.121(a)(1) of this chapter) in offices in the study area.

