(a) The end user charges for access service filed with this Commission shall include charges for the End User Common Line element, and for line port costs in excess of basic, analog service.
              

(b) Except as provided in paragraphs (c), (e), and (h) of this section, and in § 69.118, the carrier's carrier charges for access service filed with this Commission shall include charges for each of the following elements:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Carrier common line, provided that after June 30, 2003, non-price cap local exchange carriers may not assess a carrier common line charge;

(3) Local switching;

(4) Information;

(5) Tandem-switched transport;

(6) Direct-trunked transport;

(7) Special access; and

(8) Line information database;

(9) Entrance facilities.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Recovery of Contributions to the Universal Service Support Mechanisms by Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers.

(1) [Reserved]

(2)(i) Local exchange carriers may recover their contributions to the universal service support mechanisms only through explicit, interstate, end-user charges assessed pursuant to either § 69.131 or § 69.158 that are equitable and nondiscriminatory.

(ii) Local exchange carriers may not recover any of their contributions to the universal service support mechanisms through access charges imposed on interexchange carriers.

(e) The carrier's carrier charges for access service filed with this Commission by the telephone companies specified in § 64.1401(a) of this chapter shall include an element for connection charges for expanded interconnection. The carrier's carrier charges for access service filed with this Commission by the telephone companies not specified in § 64.1401(a) of this chapter may include an element for connection charges for expanded interconnection.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) Local exchange carriers may establish appropriate rate elements for a new service, within the meaning of § 61.3(x) of this chapter, in any tariff filing.

(h) In addition to the charges specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the carrier's carrier charges for access service filed with this Commission by price cap local exchange carriers shall include charges for each of the following elements:

(1) Presubscribed interexchange carrier;

(2) Per-minute residual interconnection;

(3) Dedicated local switching trunk port;

(4) Shared local switching trunk pork;

(5) Dedicated tandem switching trunk port;

(6) [Reserved]

(7) Multiplexers associated with tandem switching.

(i) Paragraphs (b) and (h) of this section are not applicable to a price cap local exchange carrier to the extent that it has been granted the pricing flexibility in § 69.727(b)(1).

(j) In addition to the charges specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the carrier's carrier charges for access service filed with this Commission by non-price cap local exchange carriers may include charges for each of the following elements:

(1) Dedicated local switching trunk port;

(2) Shared local switching trunk port;

(3) Dedicated tandem switching trunk port;

(4) Multiplexers associated with tandem switching;

(5) DS1/voice grade multiplexers associated with analog switches; and

(6) Per-message call setup.

