(a) Scope. This paragraph governs requests for pricing flexibility with respect to the following services:

(1) Entrance facilities, as described in § 69.110.

(2) Transport of traffic over dedicated transport facilities between the serving wire center and the tandem switching office, as described in § 69.111(a)(2)(iii).

(3) Direct-trunked transport, as described in § 69.112.

(4) Special access services, as described in § 69.114, other than channel terminations as defined in § 69.703(a)(2) of this part.

(b) Phase I triggers. To obtain Phase I pricing flexibility, as specified in § 69.727(a) of this part, for the services described in paragraph (a) of this section, a price cap LEC must show that, in the relevant area as described in § 69.707 of this part, competitors unaffiliated with the price cap LEC have collocated:

(1) In fifteen percent of the petitioner's wire centers, and that at least one such collocator in each wire center is using transport facilities owned by a transport provider other than the price cap LEC to transport traffic from that wire center; or

(2) In wire centers accounting for 30 percent of the petitioner's revenues from dedicated transport and special access services other than channel terminations between LEC end offices and customer premises, determined as specified in § 69.725 of this part, and that at least one such collocator in each wire center is using transport facilities owned by a transport provider other than the price cap LEC to transport traffic from that wire center.

(c) Phase II triggers. To obtain Phase II pricing flexibility, as specified in § 69.727(b) of this part, for the services described in paragraph (a) of this section, a price cap LEC must show that, in the relevant area as described in § 69.707 of this part, competitors unaffiliated with the price cap LEC have collocated:

(1) in 50 percent of the petitioner's wire centers, and that at least one such collocator in each wire center is using transport facilities owned by a transport provider other than the price cap LEC to transport traffic from that wire center; or

(2) in wire centers accounting for 65 percent of the petitioner's revenues from dedicated transport and special access services other than channel terminations between LEC end offices and customer premises, determined as specified in § 69.725 of this part, and that at least one such collocator in each wire center is using transport facilities owned by a transport provider other than the price cap LEC to transport traffic from that wire center.

