Certain rules applicable to broadcast services, some of which are also applicable to other services, are set forth in the following Parts of the FCC Rules and Regulations.

(a) Part 1, “Practice and Procedure.”

(1) Subpart A, “General Rules of Practice and Procedure”. (§§ 1.1 to 1.117).

(2) Subpart B, “Hearing Proceedings”. (§§ 1.201 to 1.364)

(3) Subpart C, “Rulemaking Proceedings”. (§§ 1.399 to 1.430).

(4) Subpart G, “Schedule of Statutory Charges and Procedures for Payment”. (§§ 1.1101 to 1.1117.)

(5) Subpart H, “Ex Parte Communications”. (§§ 1.1200 to 1.1216).

(6) Subpart I, “Procedures Implementing the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969”. (§§ 1.1301 to 1.1319).

(7) Subpart P, “Implementation of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988”. (§§ 1.2001-1.2003.)

(8) Subpart Q, “Competitive Bidding Proceedings” (§§ 1.2101-1.2112).

(9) Part 1, Subpart W of this chapter, “FCC Registration Number”. (§§ 1.8001-1.8005.)

(b) Part 2, “Frequency Allocations and Radio Treaty Matters, General Rules and Regulations”, including Subparts A, “Terminology”; B, “Allocation, Assignments and Use of Radio Frequencies”; C, “Emissions”; D, “Call Signs and Other Forms of Identifying Radio Transmissions”; and J, “Equipment Authorization Procedures”.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Part 17, “Construction, Marking and Lighting of Antenna Structures”.

(e) Part 74, “Experimental, Auxiliary and Special Broadcast and Other Program Distributional Services” including:

(1) Subpart A, “Experimental Broadcast Stations”;

(2) Subpart D, “Remote Pickup Broadcast Stations”;

(3) Subpart E, “Aural Broadcast Auxiliary Stations”;

(4) Subpart F, “Television Broadcast Auxiliary Stations”;

(5) Subpart G, “Low Power TV, TV Translator and TV Booster Stations”;

(6) Subpart H, “Low Power Auxiliary Stations”;

(7) Subpart L, “FM Broadcast Translator Stations and FM Broadcast Booster Stations”.

