When the licensee of an existing AM, FM, TV or Class A TV station is in the process of modifying existing facilities as authorized by a construction permit and determines it is necessary to either discontinue operation or to operate with temporary facilities to continue program service, the following procedures apply:

(a) Licensees holding a construction permit for modification of directional or nondirectional FM, TV or Class A TV or nondirectional AM station facilities may, without specific FCC authority, for a period not exceeding 30 days:

(1) Discontinue operation, or

(2) Operate with temporary facilities to maintain, as nearly as possible, but not exceed, the size of the presently licensed coverage area.

(b) Licensees of an AM station holding a construction permit which involves directional facilities and which does not involve a change in operating frequency may, without specific FCC authority, for a period not exceeding 30 days:

(1) Discontinue operation, or

(2) Operate with reduced power or with parameters at variance from licensed tolerances while maintaining monitoring point field strengths within licensed limits during the period subsequent to the commencement of modifications authorized by the construction permit, or

(3) Operate in a nondirectional mode during the presently licensed hours of directional operation with power reduced to 25% or less of the nominal licensed power, or whatever higher power, not exceeding licensed power, will insure that the radiated field strength specified by the license is not exceeded at any given asimuth for the corresponding hours of directional operation, or

(4) Operate in a nondirectional mode during daytime hours, if not already so licensed, only as necessary to conduct a required nondirectional proof of performance with a power not to exceed 25% of the maximum power authorized by the construction permit for directional operation, or

(5) Operate during daytime hours with either the daytime or nighttime directional pattern and with the power authorized by the construction permit only as necessary to take proof of performance measurements. Operating power shall be promptly reduced to presently licensed level during any significant period of time that these measurements are not being taken. No daytime operation of construction permit directional patterns authorized by this paragraph shall be conducted before such patterns have been substantially tuned during the experimental period.

(6) In the event the directional pattern authorized by the construction permit replaces a licensed directional pattern, the licensee may operate with the substantially adjusted construction permit pattern during the corresponding licensed hours of directional operation with power not exceeding that specified for the licensed pattern.

(c) Such operation or discontinuance of operation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may begin upon notification to the FCC in Washington, DC.

(1) Should it be necessary to continue the procedures in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section beyond 30 days, an informal letter request signed by the licensee or the licensee's representative must be sent to the FCC in Washington, DC. prior to the 30th day.

(2) The license of a broadcasting station that fails to transmit broadcast signals for any consecutive 12-month period expires as a matter of law at the end of that period, notwithstanding any provision, term, or condition of the license or construction permit to the contrary.

(d) Licensees of an AM station holding a construction permit which authorizes both a change in frequency and directional facilities must request and obtain authority from the FCC in Washington, DC. prior to using any new installation authorized by the permit, or using temporary facilities.

(1) The request is to be made at least 10 days prior to the date on which the temporary operation is to commence. The request is to be made by letter which shall describe the operating modes and facilities to be used. Such letter requests shall be signed by the licensee or the licensee's representative.

(2) Discontinuance of operation is permitted upon notification to the FCC In Washington, DC. Should it be necessary to discontinue operation longer than 30 days, an informal letter request, signed by the licensee or the licensee's representatives, must be sent to the FCC in Washington, DC prior to the 30th day.

(e) The FCC may modify or cancel the temporary operation permitted under the provisions of paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this section without prior notice or right to hearing.

