(a) Except for those stations described in paragraph (b) of this section, each AM, FM, and TV broadcast station shall maintain a main studio at one of the following locations:

(1) Within the station's community of license;

(2) At any location within the principal community contour of any AM, FM, or TV broadcast station licensed to the station's community of license; or

(3) Within twenty-five miles from the reference coordinates of the center of its community of license as described in § 73.208(a)(1).
                      

(b) The following stations are not required to maintain their main studio at the locations described in paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) AM stations licensed as synchronous amplifier transmitters (“AM boosters”) or,
                      

(2) AM, FM, or TV stations, when good cause exists for locating the main studio at a location other than that described in paragraph (a) of this section, and when so doing would be consistent with the operation of the station in the public interest.

(c) Each Class A television station shall maintain a main studio at a location within the station's predicted Grade B contour, as defined in § 73.683 and calculated using the method specified in § 73.684. With respect to a group of commonly controlled stations, Class A stations whose predicted Grade B contours are physically contiguous to each other may locate their main studio within any of these contours. If a Class A station is one of a group of commonly controlled Class A stations, but its predicted Grade B contour is not physically contiguous to that of another Class A station in the commonly owned group, its main studio shall be located within its own predicted Grade B contour. Alternatively, a Class A television station shall maintain a main studio at the site used by the station as of November 29, 1999.

(d) Relocation of the main studio may be made:

(1) From one point to another within the locations described in paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, or from a point outside the locations specified in paragraph (a) or (c) to one within those locations, without specific FCC authority, but notification to the FCC in Washington shall be made promptly.

(2) Written authority to locate a main studio outside the locations specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of this section for the first time must be obtained from the Audio Division, Media Bureau for AM and FM stations, or the Video Division for TV and Class A television stations before the studio may be moved to that location. Where the main studio is already authorized at a location outside those specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of this section, and the licensee or permittee desires to specify a new location also located outside those locations, written authority must also be received from the Commission prior to the relocation of the main studio. Authority for these changes may be requested by filing a letter with an explanation of the proposed changes with the appropriate division. Licensees or permittees should also be aware that the filing of such a letter request does not imply approval of the relocation request, because each request is addressed on a case-by-case basis. A filing fee is required for commercial AM, FM, TV or Class A TV licensees or permittees filing a letter request under the section (see § 1.1104 of this chapter).

(e) Each AM, FM, TV and Class A TV broadcast station shall maintain a local telephone number in its community of license or a toll-free number.

