(a) AM stations. (1) Except as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section, the antenna input power of an AM station as determined by the procedures specified in ยง 73.51 must be maintained as near as is practicable to the authorized antenna input power and may not be less than 90% nor more than 105% of the authorized power.

(2) Whenever the transmitter of an AM station cannot be placed into the specified operating mode at the time required, transmissions of the station must be immediately terminated. However, if the radiated field at any bearing or elevation does not exceed that permitted for that time of day, operation in the mode with the lesser radiated field may continue under the notification procedures of paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) FM stations. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the transmitter output power of an FM station, with power output as determined by the procedures specified in ยง 73.267, which is authorized for output power more than 10 watts must be maintained as near as practicable to the authorized transmitter output power and may not be less than 90% nor more than 105% of the authorized power. FM stations operating with authorized transmitter output power of 10 watts or less, may operate at less than the authorized power, but not more than 105% of the authorized power.

(c) TV stations. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the visual output power of a TV or Class A TV transmitter, as determined by the procedures specified in Sec. 73.664, must be maintained as near as is practicable to the authorized transmitter output power and may not be less than 80% nor more than 110% of the authorized power.

(2) The output power of the aural transmitter shall be maintained to provide an aural carrier ERP not to exceed 22% of the peak authorized visual ERP.

(3) The FCC may specify deviation from the power of tolerance requirements for subscription television operations to the extent it deems necessary to permit proper operation.

(d) Reduced power operation. In the event it becomes technically impossible to operate at authorized power, a broadcast station may operate at reduced power for a period of not more than 30 days without specific authority from the FCC. If operation at reduced power will exceed 10 consecutive days, notification must be made to the FCC in Washington, DC, Attention: Audio Division (radio) or Video Division (television), Media Bureau, not later than the 10th day of the lower power operation. In the event that normal power is restored within the 30 day period, the licensee must notify the FCC of the date that normal operation was restored. If causes beyond the control of the licensee prevent restoration of the authorized power within 30 days, a request for Special Temporary Authority (see ยง 73.1635) must be made to the FCC in Washington, DC for additional time as may be necessary.

