(a) A partial proof of performance consists of at least 8 field strength measurements made on each of the radials that includes a monitoring point. If the directional pattern has fewer than 4 monitored radials, the partial proof shall include measurements on those radials from the latest complete proof of performance which are adjacent to the monitored radials.

(b) The measurements are to be made within 3 to 15 kilometers from the center of the antenna array. When a monitoring point as designated on the station authorization lies on a particular radial, one of the measurements must be made at that point. One of the following methods shall be used for the partial proof:

(1) Measurement points shall be selected from the points measured in latest full proof of performance provided that the points can be identified with reasonable certainty, and that land development or other factors have not significantly altered propagation characteristics since the last full proof. At each point, the licensee shall measure directional field strength for comparison to either the directional or the nondirectional field strength measured at that point in the last full proof.

(2) In the event that a meaningful comparison to full proof measurements cannot be made, the licensee shall measure both directional and nondirectional field strength at eight points on each radial. The points need not be limited to those measured in the last full proof of performance.

(c) The results of the measurements are to be analyzed as follows. Either the arithmetic average or the logarithmic average of the ratios of the field strength at each measurement point to the corresponding field strength in the most recent complete proof of performance shall be used to establish the inverse distance fields. (The logarithmic average for each radial is the antilogarithm of the mean of the logarithms of the ratios of field strength (new to old) for each measurement location along a given radial). When new nondirectional measurements are used as the reference, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, either the arithmetic or logarithmic averages of directional to nondirectional field strength on each radial shall be used in conjunction with the measured nondirectional field from the last proof to establish the inverse distance field.

(d) The result of the most recent partial proof of performance measurements and analysis is to be retained in the station records available to the FCC upon request. Maps showing new measurement points, i.e., points not measured in the last full proof, shall be associated with the partial proof in the station's records, and shall be provided to the FCC upon request.

