Where a broadcast licensee or permittee proposes to mount a broadcast antenna on an AM station tower, or where construction is proposed within 0.8 km of an AM nondirectional tower or within 3.2 km of an AM directional station, the broadcast licensee or permittee is responsible for ensuring that the construction does not adversely affect the AM station, as follows:

(a) Installations on an AM nondirectional tower. During installation of the broadcast antenna and related equipment, the AM station shall determine operating power by the indirect method (see § 73.51). Upon the completion of the installation, antenna impedance measurements on the AM antenna shall be made, and, prior to or simultaneously with the filing of the license application covering the broadcast station installation, an application on FCC Form 302-AM (including a tower sketch of the installation) shall be filed with the Commission for the AM station to return to direct power measurement.

(b) Installations on an AM directional array. Prior to commencing construction, the broadcast permittee or licensee shall notify the AM station so that, if necessary, the AM station may determine operating power by the indirect method (see § 73.51) and request special temporary authority pursuant to § 73.1635 to operate with parameters at variance in order to maintain monitoring point field strengths within authorized limits. Both prior to the commencement of construction and upon completion of construction, a partial proof of performance (as defined by § 73.154) shall be conducted to establish that the AM array has not been adversely affected. Prior to or simultaneously with filing of the license application to cover the broadcast station construction, the results of the partial proof of performance shall be filed with the Commission on Form 302-AM.

(c) Tower erections or modifications within 0.8 km of an AM nondirectional tower. Prior to commencing the construction of tower modifications, or the erection of a new tower, within 0.8 km of an AM nondirectional tower, the broadcast permittee or licensee is required to notify the AM station so that the AM station may commence determining operating power by the indirect method (see § 73.51). The broadcast licensee or permittee shall be responsible for the installation and continued maintenance of detuning apparatus necessary to prevent adverse effects on the radiation pattern of the AM station. Both prior to construction of the tower modifications and upon completion of construction, antenna impedance measurements of the AM station shall be made. In addition, sufficient field strength measurements taken at a minimum of 10 locations along each of 8 equally spaced radials, shall be made to establish that the AM radiation pattern is essentially omnidirectional. Prior or simultaneously with the filing of the application for license to cover this permit, the results of the impedance measurements and the field strength measurements shall be filed with the Commission on FCC Form 302-AM for the AM station to return to the direct method of power determination.

(d) Tower erections or modifications within 3.2 km of an AM directional station. Prior to commencing construction of tower modifications, or the erection of a new tower structure, within 3.2 km of an AM directional array, the broadcast permittee or licensee shall notify the AM station so that, if necessary, the AM station may determine operating power by the indirect method (see § 73.51) and request special temporary authority pursuant to § 73.1635 to operate with parameters at variance in order to maintain monitoring point field strengths within authorized limits. The broadcast licensee or permittee shall be responsible for the installation and continued maintenance of detuning apparatus necessary to prevent adverse effects upon the radiation pattern of the AM station. Both prior to the commencement of construction and upon completion of construction, a partial proof of performance (as defined by § 73.154) shall be conducted to establish that the AM array has not been adversely affected. Prior to or simultaneously with filing of the license application to cover the broadcast station construction, the results of the partial proof of performance shall be filed with the Commission on Form 302-AM.

