(a) Any log required to be kept by station licensees shall be retained by them for a period of 2 years. However, logs involving communications incident to a disaster or which include communications incident to or involved in an investigation by the FCC and about which the licensee has been notified, shall be retained by the licensee until specifically authorized in writing by the FCC to destroy them. Logs incident to or involved in any claim or complaint of which the licensee has notice shall be retained by the licensee until such claim or complaint has been fully satisfied or until the same has been barred by statute limiting the time for filing of suits upon such claims.

(b) Logs may be retained on microfilm, microfiche or other data-storage systems subject to the following conditions:

(1) Suitable viewing—reading devices shall be available to permit FCC inspection of logs pursuant to § 73.1226, availability to FCC of station logs and records.

(2) Reproduction of logs, stored on data-storage systems, to full-size copies, is required of licensees if requested by the FCC or the public as authorized by FCC rules. Such reproductions must be completed within 2 full work days of the time of the request.

(3) Corrections to logs shall be made:
                      

(i) Prior to converting to a data-storage system pursuant to the requirements of § 73.1800 (c) and (d), (§ 73.1800, General requirements relating to logs).

(ii) After converting to a data-storage system, by separately making such corrections and then associating with the related data-stored logs. Such corrections shall contain sufficient information to allow those reviewing the logs to identify where corrections have been made, and when and by whom the corrections were made.

(4) Copies of any log required to be filed with any application; or placed in the station's local public inspection file as part of an application; or filed with reports to the FCC must be reproduced in fullsize form when complying with these requirements.

