(a) Entries must be made in the station log either manually by a person designated by the licensee who is in actual charge of the transmitting apparatus, or by automatic devices meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. Indications of operating parameters that are required to be logged must be logged prior to any adjustment of the equipment. Where adjustments are made to restore parameters to their proper operating values, the corrected indications must be logged and accompanied, if any parameter deviation was beyond a prescribed tolerance, by a notation describing the nature of the corrective action. Indications of all parameters whose values are affected by the modulation of the carrier must be read without modulation. The actual time of observation must be included in each log entry. The following information must be entered:

(1) All stations. (i) Entries required by § 17.49 of this chapter concerning any observed or otherwise known extinguishment or improper functioning of a tower light:

(A) The nature of such extinguishment or improper functioning.

(B) The date and time the extinguishment or improper operation was observed or otherwise noted.

(C) The date, time and nature of adjustments, repairs or replacements made.

(ii) Any entries not specifically required in this section, but required by the instrument of authorization or elsewhere in this part.

(iii) An entry of each test and activation of the Emergency Alert System (EAS) pursuant to the requirement of part 11 of this chapter and the EAS Operating Handbook. Stations may keep EAS data in a special EAS log which shall be maintained at a convenient location; however, this log is considered a part of the station log.

(2) Directional AM stations without an FCC-approved antenna sampling system (See § 73.68). (i) An entry at the beginning of operations in each mode of operation, and thereafter at intervals not exceeding 3 hours, of the following (actual readings observed prior to making any adjustments to the equipment and an indication of any corrections to restore parameters to normal operating values):

(A) Common point current.

(B) When the operating power is determined by the indirect method, the efficiency factor F and either the product of the final amplifier input voltage and current or the calculated antenna input power. See § 73.51(e).

(C) Antenna monitor phase or phase deviation indications.

(D) Antenna monitor sample currents, current ratios, or ratio deviation indications.

(ii) Entries required by § 73.61 performed in accordance with the schedule specified therein.

(iii) Entries of the results of calibration of automatic logging devices (see paragraph (b) of this section) or indicating instruments (see § 73.67), whenever performed.

(b) Automatic devices accurately calibrated and with appropriate time, date and circuit functions may be utilized to record entries in the station log Provided:
                      

(1) The recording devices do not affect the operation of circuits or accuracy of indicating instruments of the equipment being recorded;

(2) The recording devices have an accuracy equivalent to the accuracy of the indicating instruments;

(3) The calibration is checked against the original indicators as often as necessary to ensure recording accuracy;

(4) In the event of failure or malfunctioning of the automatic equipment, the person designated by the licensee as being responsible for the log small make the required entries in the log manually at that time;

(5) The indicating equipment conforms to the requirements of § 73.1215 (Indicating instruments—specifications) except that the scales need not exceed 5 cm (2 inches) in length. Arbitrary scales may not be used.

(c) In preparing the station log, original data may be recorded in rough form and later transcribed into the log.

