A station licensed with a directional antenna pattern pursuant to a proof of performance using moment method modeling and internal array parameters as described in § 73.151(c) shall recertify the performance of that directional antenna pattern at least once within every 24 month period.

(a) Measurements shall be made to verify the continuing integrity of the antenna monitor sampling system.

(1) For towers using base current or base voltage sampling derived at the output of the antenna coupling and matching equipment, the sampling devices shall be disconnected and calibrated by measuring their outputs with a common reference signal (a current through them or a voltage across them, as appropriate) and the calibration must agree with the manufacturer's specifications.

(2) For towers using base current or base voltage sampling derived at the output of the antenna coupling and matching equipment, sampling line measurements shall be made to verify the open-circuit resonant frequency closest to carrier frequency, to establish length, and also at frequencies corresponding to odd multiples of 1/8 wavelength immediately above and below the open-circuit resonant frequency closest to carrier frequency, while open circuited, to verify their characteristic impedance. The frequencies measured must be the same as were measured in the most recent proof of performance and must demonstrate that the sampling lines continue to meet the requirements of § 73.151(c) with regard to their length and characteristic impedance.

(3) For towers having sampling loops, measurements shall be made at carrier frequency or, if necessary, at nearby frequencies where the magnitude of the measured impedance is no greater than 200 ohms with the sampling loops connected. The frequencies measured must be the same as were measured in the most recent proof of performance and the measured impedances must agree within ±2 ohms and ±4 percent resistance and reactance of the proof values.

(b) Field strength measurements shall be made at the reference field strength measurement locations that were established by the most recent proof of performance. If locations have become inaccessible or their readings contaminated by localized electromagnetic environmental changes, new locations that meet the requirements of the moment method proof of performance rules in § 73.151(c)(3) shall be established to replace them.

(c) The results of the periodic directional antenna performance recertification measurements shall be retained in the station's public inspection file.

