(a) The rules in this part 73, and authorizations for which they provide, are subject to compliance with the international obligations and undertakings of the United States. Accordingly, all provisions in this part 73 are subject to compliance with applicable requirements, restrictions, and procedures accepted by the United States that have been established by or pursuant to treaties or other international agreements, arrangements, or understandings to which the United States is a signatory, including applicable annexes, protocols, resolutions, recommendations and other supplementing documents associated with such international instruments.

(b) The United States is a signatory to the following treaties and other international agreements that relate, in whole or in part, to AM, FM or TV broadcasting:

(1) The following instruments of the International Telecommunication Union:

(i) Constitution.

(ii) Convention.

(iii) Radio Regulations.
                      

(2) Regional Agreements for the Broadcasting Service in Region 2:

(i) MF Broadcasting 535-1605 kHz, Rio de Janeiro, 1981.

(ii) MF Broadcasting 1605-1705 kHz, Rio de Janeiro, 1988.

(3) Bi-lateral Agreements between the United States and Canada relating to:

(i) AM Broadcasting.

(ii) FM Broadcasting.

(iii) TV Broadcasting.

(4) Bi-lateral Agreements between the United States and Mexico relating to:

(i) AM Broadcasting.

(ii) FM Broadcasting.

(iii) TV Broadcasting.

(5) Bi-lateral Agreement between the United States and the Bahama Islands relating to presunrise operations by AM stations.

(6) North American Regional Broadcasting Agreement (NARBA), which, for the United States, remains in effect with respect to the Dominican Republic and the Bahama Islands.

