An authorization for a new AM broadcast station or increase in facilities of an existing station will be issued only after a satisfactory showing has been made in regard to the following, among others:

(a) That the proposed assignment will tend to effect a fair, efficient, and equitable distribution of radio service among the several states and communities.

(b) That a proposed new station (or a proposed change in the facilities of an authorized station) complies with the pertinent requirements of ยง 73.37 of this chapter.

(c) That the applicant is financially qualified to construct and operate the proposed station.

(d) That the applicant is legally qualified. That the applicant (or the person or persons in control of an applicant corporation or other organization) is of good character and possesses other qualifications sufficient to provide a satisfactory public service.

(e) That the technical equipment proposed, the location of the transmitter, and other technical phases of operation comply with the regulations governing the same, and the requirements of good engineering practice.

(f) That the facilities sought are subject to assignment as requested under existing international agreements and the rules and regulations of the Commission.

(g) That the population within the 1 V/m contour does not exceed 1.0 percent of the population within the 25 mV/m contour: Provided, however, That where the number of persons within the 1 V/m contour is 300 or less the provisions of this paragraph are not applicable.

(h) That, in the case of an application for a Class B or Class D station on a clear channel, the proposed station would radiate, during two hours following local sunrise and two hours preceding local sunset, in any direction toward the 0.1 mV/m groundwave contour of a co-channel United States Class A station, no more than the maximum value permitted under the provisions of ยง 73.187.

(i) That, for all stations, the daytime 5 mV/m contour encompasses the entire principal community to be served. That, for stations in the 535-1605 kHz band, 80% of the principal community is encompassed by the nighttime 5 mV/m contour or the nighttime interference-free contour, whichever value is higher. That, for stations in the 1605-1705 kHz band, 50% of the principal community is encompassed by the 5 mV/m contour or the nighttime interference-free contour, whichever value is higher. That, Class D stations with nighttime authorizations need not demonstrate such coverage during nighttime operation.

(j) That the public interest, convenience, and necessity will be served through the operation under the proposed assignment.

