(a) The operating power of each FM station is to be determined by either the direct or indirect method.

(b) Direct method. The direct method of power determination for an FM station uses the indications of a calibrated transmission line meter (responsive to relative voltage, current, or power) located at the RF output terminals of the transmitter. This meter must be calibrated whenever there is any indication that the calibration is inaccurate or whenever any component of the metering circuit is repaired or replaced. The calibration must cover, as a minimum, the range from 90% to 105% of authorized power. The meter calibration may be checked by measuring the power at the transmitter terminals while either:

(1) Operating the transmitter into the transmitting antenna, and determining actual operating power by the indirect method described in § 73.267(c); or

(2) Operating the transmitter into a load (of substantially zero reactance and a resistance equal to the transmission line characteristic impedance) and using an electrical device (within ±5% accuracy) or temperature and coolant flow indicator (within ±4% accuracy) to determine the power.

(3) The calibration must cover, as a minimum, the range from 90% to 105% of authorized power and the meter must provide clear indications which will permit maintaining the operating power within the prescribed tolerance or the meter shall be calibrated to read directly in power units.

(c) Indirect method. The operating power is determined by the indirect method by applying an appropriate factor to the input power to the last radio-frequency power amplifier stage of the transmitter, using the following formula:
              

(1) If the above formula is not appropriate for the design of the transmitter final amplifier, use a formula specified by the transmitter manufacturer with other appropriate operating parameters.

(2) The value of the efficiency factor, F, established for the authorized transmitter output power is to be used for maintaining the operating power, even though there may be some variation in F over the power operating range of the transmitter.

(3) The value of F is to be determined and a record kept thereof by one of the following procedures listed in order of preference:

(i) Using the most recent measurement data for calibration of the transmission line meter according to the procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section or the most recent measurements made by the licensee establishing the value of F. In the case of composite transmitters or those in which the final amplifier stages have been modified pursuant to FCC approval, the licensee must furnish the FCC and also retain with the station records the measurement data used as a basis for determining the value of F.
              

(ii) Using measurement data shown on the transmitter manufacturer's test data supplied to the licensee; Provided, That measurements were made at the authorized frequency and transmitter output power.

(iii) Using the transmitter manufacturer's measurement data submitted to the FCC for type acceptance and as shown in the instruction book supplied to the licensee.

