(a) Subsidiary communication services are those transmitted on a subcarrier within the FM baseband signal, but do not include services which enhance the main program broadcast service, or exclusively relate to station operations (see § 73.293). Subsidiary communications include, but are not limited to services such as functional music, specialized foreign language programs, radio reading services, utility load management, market and financial data and news, paging and calling, traffic control signal switching, bilingual television audio, and point to point or multipoint messages.

(b) FM subsidiary communications services that are common carrier in nature are subject to common carrier regulation. Licensees operating such services are required to apply to the FCC for the appropriate authorization and to comply with all policies and rules applicable to the service. Responsibility for making the initial determinations of whether a particular activity is common carriage rests with the FM station licensee. Initial determinations by licensees are subject to FCC examination and may be reviewed at the FCC's discretion.

(c) Subsidiary communications services are of a secondary nature under the authority of the FM station authorization, and the authority to provide such communications services may not be retained or transferred in any manner separate from the station's authorization. The grant or renewal of an FM station permit or license is not furthered or promoted by proposed or past services. The permittee or licensee must establish that the broadcast operation is in the public interest wholly apart from the subsidiary communications services provided.

(d) The station identification, delayed recording and sponsor identification announcements required by §§ 73.1201, 73.1208, and 73.1212 are not applicable to material transmitted under an SCA.

(e) The licensee or permittee must retain control over all material transmitted in a broadcast mode via the station's facilities, with the right to reject any material that it deems inappropriate or undesirable.

