(a) Authority may be granted, on a temporary basis, in extraordinary circumstances requiring emergency operation to serve the public interest. such situations include: emergencies involving danger to life and property; a national emergency proclaimed by the President or the Congress of the U.S.A and; the continuance of any war in which the United States is engaged, and where such action is necessary for the national defense or security or otherwise in furtherance of the war effort.

(1) An informal application may be used. The FCC may grant such construction permits, station licenses, modifications or renewals thereof, without the filing of a formal application.

(2) No authorization so granted shall continue to be effective beyond the period of the emergency or war requiring it.

(3) Each individual request submitted under the provisions of this paragraph shall contain, as a minimum requirement, the following information:

(i) Name and address of applicant.

(ii) Location of proposed installation or operation.

(iii) Official call letters of any valid station authorization already held by applicant and the station location.

(iv) Type of service desired (not required for renewal or modification unless class of station is to be modified).

(v) Frequency assignment, authorized transmitter power(s), authorized class(es) of emission desired (not required for renewal; required for modification only to the extent such information may be involved).

(vi) Equipment to be used, specifying the manufacturer and type or model number (not required for renewal; required for modification only to the extent such information may be involved).

(vii) Statements to the extent necessary for the FCC to determine whether or not the granting of the desired authorization will be in accordance with the citizenship eligibility requirements of section 310 of the Cummunications Act.

(viii) Statement of facts which, in the opinion of the applicant, constitute an emergency to be found by the FCC for the purpose of this section. This statement must also include the estimated duration of the emergency and if during an emergency or war declared by the President or Congress, why such action, without formal application, is necessary for the national defense or security or in furtherance of the war effort.

(b) Emergency operating authority issued under this section may be cancelled or modified by the FCC without prior notice or right to hearing. See also ยง 73.1250, Broadcasting Emergency Information, for situations in which emergency operation may be conducted without prior authorization, and ยง 73.1635, Special Temporary Authorization (STA), for temporary operating authorizations necessitated by circumstances not within the ambit of this section.

