(a) (1) Failure to prosecute an application, or failure to respond to official correspondence or request for additional information, will be cause for dismissal.

(2) Applicants in all broadcast services subject to competitive bidding will be subject to the provisions of §§ 73.5002 and 1.2105(b) regarding the dismissal of their short-form applications.

(3) Applicants in all broadcast services subject to competitive bidding will be subject to the provisions of §§ 73.5004, 73.5005 and 1.2104(g) regarding the dismissal of their long-form applications and the imposition of applicable withdrawal, default and disqualification payments.

(b)(1) Subject to the provisions of § 73.3525, dismissal of applications for channels reserved for noncommercial educational use will be without prejudice where an application has not yet been designated for hearing, but may be made with prejudice after designation for hearing.

(2) Subject to the provisions of § 73.3525, requests to dismiss an application for a channel reserved for noncommercial educational use, without prejudice, after it has been designated for hearing, will be considered only upon written petition properly served upon all parties of record. Such requests shall be granted only upon a showing that the request is based on circumstances wholly beyond the applicant's control which preclude further prosecution of his application.

(c) Subject to the provisions of §§ 73.3523 and 73.3525, any application for minor modification of facilities may, upon request of the applicant, be dismissed without prejudice as a matter of right.

(d) An applicant's request for the return of an application that has been accepted for filing will be regarded as a request for dismissal.

