(a) The technical specifications in this Section apply to all transmissions of FM multiplex subcarriers except those used for stereophonic sound broadcasts under the provisions of § 73.322.

(b) Modulation. Any form of modulation may be used for subcarrier operation.

(c) Subcarrier baseband. (1) During monophonic program transmissions, multiplex subcarriers and their significant sidebands must be within the range of 20 kHz to 99 kHz.

(2) During stereophonic sound program transmissions (see § 73.322), multiplex subcarriers and their significant sidebands must be within the range of 53 kHz to 99 kHz.

(3) During periods when broadcast programs are not being transmitted, multiplex subcarriers and their significant sidebands must be within the range of 20 kHz to 99 kHz.

(d) Subcarrier injection. (1) During monophonic program transmissions, modulation of the carrier by the arithmetic sum of all subcarriers may not exceed 30% referenced to 75 kHz modulation deviation. However, the modulation of the carrier by the arithmetic sum of all subcarriers above 75 kHz may not modulate the carrier by more than 10%.

(2) During stereophonic program transmissions, modulation of the carrier by the arithmetic sum of all subcarriers may not exceed 20% referenced to 75 kHz modulation deviation. However, the modulation of the carrier by the arithmetic sum of all subcarriers above 75 kHz may not modulate the carrier by more than 10%.

(3) During periods when no broadcast program service is transmitted, modulation of the carrier by the arithmetic sum of all subcarriers may not exceed 30% referenced to 75 kHz modulation deviation. However, the modulation of the carrier by the arithmetic sum of all subcarriers above 75 kHz may not modulate the carrier by more than 10%.

(4) Total modulation of the carrier wave during transmission of multiplex subcarriers used for subsidiary communications services must comply with the provisions § 73.1570(b).

(e) Subcarrier generators may be installed and used with a type accepted FM broadcast transmitter without specific authorization from the FCC provided the generator can be connected to the transmitter without requiring any mechanical or electrical modifications in the transmitter FM exciter circuits.

(f) Stations installing multiplex subcarrier transmitting equipment must ensure the proper suppression of spurious or harmonic radiations. See §§ 73.317, 73.1590 and 73.1690. If the subcarrier operation causes the station's transmissions not to comply with the technical provisions for FM broadcast stations or causes harmful interference to other communication services, the licensee or permittee must correct the problem promptly or cease operation. The licensee may be required to verify the corrective measures with supporting data. Such data must be retained at the station and be made available to the FCC upon request.

