(a) The transmitter location shall be chosen so that, on the basis of the effective radiated power and antenna height above average terrain employed, a minimum field strength of 70 dB above one uV/m (dBu), or 3.16 mV/m, will be provided over the entire principal community to be served.

(b) The transmitter location should be chosen to maximize coverage to the city of license while minimizing interference. This is normally accomplished by locating in the least populated area available while maintaining the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. In general, the transmitting antenna of a station should be located in the most sparsely populated area available at the highest elevation available. The location of the antenna should be so chosen that line-of-sight can be obtained from the antenna over the principle city or cities to be served; in no event should there be a major obstruction in this path.

(c) The transmitting location should be selected so that the 1 mV/m contour encompasses the urban population within the area to be served. It is recognized that topography, shape of the desired service area, and population distribution may make the choice of a transmitter location difficult. In such cases consideration may be given to the use of a directional antenna system, although it is generally preferable to choose a site where a nondirectional antenna may be employed.

(d) In cases of questionable antenna locations it is desirable to conduct propagation tests to indicate the field strength expected in the principal city or cities to be served and in other areas, particularly where severe shadow problems may be expected. In considering applications proposing the use of such locations, the Commission may require site tests to be made. Such tests should include measurements made in accordance with the measurement procedures described in ยง 73.314, and full data thereon shall be supplied to the Commission. The test transmitter should employ an antenna having a height as close as possible to the proposed antenna height, using a balloon or other support if necessary and feasible. Information concerning the authorization of site tests may be obtained from the Commission upon request.

(e) Cognizance must of course be taken regarding the possible hazard of the proposed antenna structure to aviation and the proximity of the proposed site to airports and airways. Procedures and standards with respect to the Commission's consideration of proposed antenna structures which will serve as a guide to persons intending to apply for radio station licenses are contained in Part 17 of this chapter (Construction, Marking, and Lighting of Antenna Structures).

