(a) Applications, amendments thereto, and related statements of fact required by the FCC must be signed by the following persons:

(1) Individual Applicant. The applicant, if the applicant is an individual.

(2) Partnership. One of the partners, if the applicant is a partnership.

(3) Corporation. An officer, if the applicant is a corporation.

(4) Unincorporated Association. A member who is an officer, if the applicant is an unincorporated association.

(5) Governmental Entity. Such duly elected or appointed officials as may be competent to do so under the law of the applicable jurisdiction, if the applicant is an eligible governmental entity, such as a State or Territory of the United States and political subdivisions thereof, the District of Columbia, and a unit of local government, including an unincorporated municipality.

(b) Applications, amendments thereto, and related statements of fact required by the FCC may be signed by the applicant's attorney in case of the applicant's physical disability or of his absence from the United States. The attorney shall in that event separately set forth the reason why the application is not signed by the applicant. In addition, if any matter is stated on the basis of the attorney's belief only (rather than his knowledge), he shall separately set forth his reasons for believing that such statements are true.

(c) Facsimile signatures are acceptable. Only the original of applications, amendments, or related statements of fact, need be signed; copies may be conformed.

(d) Applications, amendments, and related statements of fact need not be submitted under oath. Willful false statements made therein however, will be considered a violation of ยง 73.1015, are also punishable by fine and imprisonment, U.S. Code, Title 18, section 1001, and by appropriate adminstrative sanctions including revocation of station license pursuant to section 312(a)(i) of the Communications Act.

