(a) All applicants for new, additional, or different AM station facilities and all licensees requesting authority to change the transmitting system site of an existing station must specify an antenna system, the efficiency of which complies with the requirements for the class and power of station. (See §§ 73.186 and 73.189.)

(1) An application for authority to install an AM broadcast antenna must specify a definite site and include full details of the antenna system design and expected performance.

(2) All data necessary to show compliance with the terms and conditions of the construction permit must be filed with the application for the station license to cover the construction. If the station has constructed a directional antenna, a directional proof of performance must be filed. See §§ 73.150 through 73.157.

(b) The simultaneous use of a common antenna or antenna structure by more than one AM station or by a station of any other type or service may be authorized provided:

(1) Engineering data are submitted showing that satisfactory operation of each station will be obtained without adversely affecting the operation of the other station(s).

(2) The minimum field strength for each AM station complies with § 73.189(b).

(c) Should any changes be made or otherwise occur which would possibly alter the resistance of the antenna system, the licensee must commence the determination of the operating power by a method described in § 73.51(a)(1) or (d). (If the changes are due to the construction of FM or TV transmitting facilities, see §§ 73.316, 73.685, and 73.1692.) Upon completion of any necessary repairs or adjustments, or upon completion of authorized construction or modifications, the licensee must make a new determination of the antenna resistance using the procedures described in § 73.54. Operating power should then be determined by a direct method as described in § 73.51. Notification of the value of resistance of the antenna system must be filed with the FCC in Washington, DC as follows:

(1) Whenever the measurements show that the antenna or common point resistance differs from that shown on the station authorization by more than 2%, FCC Form 302 must be filed with the information and measurement data specified in § 73.54(d).

(2) Whenever AM stations use direct reading power meters pursuant to § 73.51, a letter notification to the FCC in Washington, DC, Attention: Audio Division, Media Bureau, must be filed in accordance with § 73.54(e).

