(a) New entrant bidding credit. A winning bidder that qualifies as a “new entrant” may use a bidding credit to lower the cost of its winning bid on any broadcast construction permit. Any winning bidder claiming new entrant status must have de facto, as well as de jure, control of the entity utilizing the bidding credit. A thirty-five (35) percent bidding credit will be given to a winning bidder if it, and/or any individual or entity with an attributable interest in the winning bidder, have no attributable interest in any other media of mass communications, as defined in § 73.5008. A twenty-five (25) percent bidding credit will be given to a winning bidder if it, and/or any individual or entity with an attributable interest in the winning bidder, have an attributable interest in no more than three mass media facilities. No bidding credit will be given if any of the commonly owned mass media facilities serve the same area as the proposed broadcast or secondary broadcast station, or if the winning bidder, and/or any individual or entity with an attributable interest in the winning bidder, have attributable interests in more than three mass media facilities. Attributable interests held by a winning bidder in existing low power television, television translator or FM translator facilities will not be counted among the bidder's other mass media interests in determining eligibility for a bidding credit. Eligibility for the new entrant bidding credit must be specified in an applicant's FCC Form 175 application, and the new entrant bidding credit specified in an applicant's FCC Form 175 application establishes that applicant's maximum bidding credit eligibility for that auction. Any post-FCC Form 175 filing change in the applicant's circumstances underlying its new entrant bidding credit eligibility claim, or that of any attributable interest-holder in the applicant, must be reported to the Commission immediately, and no later than five business days after the change occurs. Any such post-FCC Form 175 filing change may cause a reduction or elimination of the new entrant bidding credit claimed in the applicant's FCC Form 175 application, if the change would cause the applicant not to qualify for the originally claimed new entrant bidding credit under the eligibility provisions of § 73.5007, and the change occurred prior to grant of the construction permit to the applicant. Final determinations regarding new entrant status will be made at the time of long form construction permit application grant. Applicants whose eligibility is lost or reduced subsequent to the FCC Form 175 filing must, before a construction permit will be issued, make such payments as are necessary to account for the difference between claimed and actual bidding credit eligibility.

(b) The new entrant bidding credit is not available to a winning bidder if it, and/or any individual or entity with an attributable interest in the winning bidder, have an attributable interest in any existing media of mass communications in the same area as the proposed broadcast or secondary broadcast facility.

(1) Any existing media of mass communications will be considered in the “same area” as a proposed broadcast or secondary broadcast facility if the relevant defined service areas of the existing mass media facilities partially overlap, or are partially overlapped by, the proposed broadcast or secondary broadcast facility's relevant contour.

(2) For purposes of determining whether any existing media of mass communications is in the “same area” as a proposed broadcast or secondary broadcast facility, the relevant defined service areas of the existing mass media facilities shall be as follows:

(i) AM broadcast station—principal community contour (see § 73.24(i));

(ii) FM Broadcast station—principal community contour (see § 73.315(a));

(iii) Television broadcast station—television Grade B or equivalent contour (see § 73.683(a) for analog TV and § 73.622(e) for DTV);

(iv) Cable television system—the franchised community of a cable system; and

(v) Daily newspaper—community of publication.

(3) For purposes of determining whether a proposed broadcast or secondary broadcast facility is in the “same area” as an existing mass media facility, the relevant contours of the proposed broadcast or secondary broadcast facility shall be as follows:

(i) AM broadcast station—principal community contour (see § 73.24(i));

(ii) FM broadcast station—principal community contour (see § 73.315(a));

(iii) FM translator station—predicted, protected contour (see § 74.1204(a) of this chapter);
              

(iv) Television broadcast station—television Grade B or equivalent contour (see § 73.683(a) for analog TV and § 73.622(e) for DTV).

(v) Low power television or television translator station—predicted, protected contour (see § 74.707(a) of this chapter).

(c) Unjust enrichment. If a licensee or permittee that utilizes a new entrant bidding credit under this subsection seeks to assign or transfer control of its license or construction permit to an entity not meeting the eligibility criteria for the bidding credit, the licensee or permittee must reimburse the U.S. Government for the amount of the bidding credit, plus interest based on the rate for ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations applicable on the date the construction permit was originally granted, as a condition of Commission approval of the assignment or transfer. If a licensee or permittee that utilizes a new entrant bidding credit seeks to assign or transfer control of a license or construction permit to an entity that is eligible for a lower bidding credit, the difference between the bidding credit obtained by the assigning party and the bidding credit for which the acquiring party would qualify, plus interest based on the rate for ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations applicable on the date the construction permit was originally granted, must be paid to the U.S. Government as a condition of Commission approval of the assignment or transfer. The amount of the reimbursement payments will be reduced over time. An assignment or transfer in the first two years after issuance of the construction permit to the winning bidder will result in a forfeiture of one hundred (100) percent of the value of the bidding credit; during year three, of seventy-five (75) percent of the value of the bidding credit; in year four, of fifty (50) percent; in year five, twenty-five (25) percent; and thereafter, no payment. If a licensee or permittee who utilized a new entrant bidding credit in obtaining a broadcast license or construction permit acquires within this five-year reimbursement period an additional broadcast facility or facilities, such that the licensee or permittee would not have been eligible for the new entrant credit, the licensee or permittee will generally not be required to reimburse the U.S. Government for the amount of the bidding credit.

