(a) As set forth in 47 CFR 1.2108, petitions to deny may be filed against the long-form applications filed by winning bidders in broadcast service auctions and against the long-form applications filed by applicants whose short-form applications were not mutually exclusive with any other applicant, or whose short-form applications were mutually exclusive only with one or more short-form applications for a noncommercial educational broadcast station, as described in 47 U.S.C. 397(6).

(b) Within ten (10) days following the issuance of a public notice announcing that a long-form application for an AM, FM or television construction permit has been accepted for filing, petitions to deny that application may be filed. Within fifteen (15) days following the issuance of a public notice announcing that a long-form application for a low-power television, television translator or FM translator construction permit has been accepted for filing, petitions to deny that application may be filed. Any such petitions must contain allegations of fact supported by affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof.

(c) An applicant may file an opposition to any petition to deny, and the petitioner a reply to such opposition. Allegations of fact or denials thereof must be supported by affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof. In the AM, FM and television broadcast services, the time for filing such oppositions shall be five (5) days from the filing date for petitions to deny, and the time for filing replies shall be five (5) days from the filing date for oppositions. In the low-power television, television translator and FM translator broadcast services, the time for filing such oppositions shall be fifteen (15) days from the filing date for petitions to deny, and the time for filing replies shall be ten (10) days from the filing date for oppositions.

(d) Broadcast construction permits will be granted by the Commission only if the Commission denies or dismisses all petitions to deny, if any are filed, and is otherwise satisfied that an applicant is qualified, and after full and timely payment of winning bids and any applicable late fees. See 47 CFR 73.5003. Construction of broadcast stations shall not commence until the grant of such permit or license to the winning bidder and only after full and timely payment of winning bids and any applicable late fees.

