(a) The provisions of this section relate to allotment separations and station separations. Petitions to amend the Table of Allotments (§ 73.606(b)) (other than those also expressly requesting amendment of this section or § 73.609) will be dismissed and all applications for new TV broadcast stations or for changes in the transmitter sites of existing stations will not be accepted for filing if they fail to comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section.
              

(b) Minimum co-channel allotment and station separations:

(1)

(2) The minimum co-channel distance separation between a station in one zone and a station in another zone shall be that of the zone requiring the lower separation.

(c) Minimum allotment and station adjacent channel separations applicable to all zones:

(1) Channels 2-13 95.7 kilometers (59.5 miles). Channels 14-69 87.7 kilometers (54.5 miles).

(2) Due to the frequency spacing which exists between Channels 4 and 5, between Channels 6 and 7, and between Channels 13 and 14, the minimum adjacent channel separations specified above shall not be applicable to these pairs of channels (see § 73.603(a)).

(d) In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section, the minimum assignment and station separations between stations on Channels 14-69, inclusive, as set forth in Table II of § 73.698 must be met in either rule-making proceedings looking towards the amendment of the Table of Assignments (§ 73.606(b)) or in licensing proceedings. No channel listed in column (1) of Table II of § 73.698 will be assigned to any city, and no application for an authorization to operate on such a channel will be granted, unless the distance separations indicated at the top of columns (2) through (7), inclusive, are met with respect to each of the channels listed in those columns and parallel with the channel in column (1).

(e) The zone in which the transmitter of a television station is located or proposed to be located determines the applicable rules with respect to co-channel distance separations where the transmitter is located in a different zone from that in which the channel to be employed is located.
              

(f) The distances listed below apply only to allotments and assignments on Channel 6 (82-88 MHz). The Commission will not accept petitions to amend the Table of Allotments, applications for new stations, or applications to change the channel or location of existing assignments where the following minimum distances (between transmitter sites, in kilometers) from any FM Channel 253 allotment or assignment are not met:

