(a) Applications for modified Class A TV facilities proposing the use of directional antenna systems must be accompanied by the following:

(1) Complete description of the proposed antenna system, including the manufacturer and model number of the proposed directional antenna. In the case of a composite antenna composed of two or more individual antennas, the antenna should be described as a “composite” antenna. A full description of the design of the antenna should also be submitted.

(2) Relative field horizontal plane pattern (horizontal polarization only) of the proposed directional antenna. A value of 1.0 should be used for the maximum radiation. The plot of the pattern should be oriented so that 0 degrees (True North) corresponds to the maximum radiation of the directional antenna or, alternatively in the case of a symmetrical pattern, the line of symmetry. Where mechanical beam tilt is intended, the amount of tilt in degrees of the antenna vertical axis and the orientation of the downward tilt with respect to true North must be specified, and the horizontal plane pattern must reflect the use of mechanical beam tilt.

(3) A tabulation of the relative field pattern required in paragraph (a)(2), of this section. The tabulation should use the same zero degree reference as the plotted pattern, and be tabulated at least every 10 degrees. In addition, tabulated values of all maxima and minima, with their corresponding azimuths, should be submitted.

(4) Horizontal and vertical plane radiation patterns showing the effective radiated power, in dBk, for each direction. Sufficient vertical plane patterns must be included to indicate clearly the radiation characteristics of the antenna above and below the horizontal plane. In cases where the angles at which the maximum vertical radiation varies with azimuth, a separate vertical radiation pattern must be provided for each pertinent radial direction.

(5) The horizontal and vertical plane patterns that are required are the patterns for the complete directional antenna system. In the case of a composite antenna composed of two or more individual antennas, this means that the patterns for the composite antenna, not the patterns for each of the individual antennas, must be submitted.

(b) Applications for modified Class A TV facilities proposing to locate antennas within 61.0 meters (200 feet) of other Class A TV or TV broadcast antennas operating on a channel within 20 percent in frequency of the proposed channel, or proposing the use of antennas on Channels 5 or 6 within 61.0 meters (200 feet) of FM broadcast antennas, must include a showing as to the expected effect, if any, of such proximate operation.

(c) Where a Class A TV licensee or permittee proposes to mount an antenna on an AM antenna tower, or locate within 3.2 km of an AM directional station, the TV licensee or permittee must comply with Sec. 73.1692.

(d) Class A TV stations are subject to the provisions in § 73.685(d) regarding blanketing interference.

