Upon showing that a need exists for the use of auxiliary transmitters, a license may be issued provided that:

(a) Auxiliary transmitters may be installed either at the same location as the main transmitters or at another location.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) The auxiliary transmitters shall be maintained so that they may be put into immediate operation at any time for the following purposes:

(1) The transmission of the regular programs upon the failure of the main transmitters.

(2) The transmission of regular programs during maintenance or modification work on the main transmitter, necessitating discontinuance of its operation for a period not to exceed 5 days. (This includes the equipment changes which may be made without authority as set forth elsewhere in the rules and regulations or as authorized by the Commission by letter or by construction permit. Where such operation is required for periods in excess of 5 days, request therefor shall be in accordance with ยง 73.3542 of this chapter.)

(3) Upon request by a duly authorized representative of the Commission.

(d) The auxiliary transmitters shall be tested at least once each week to determine that they are in proper operating condition and that they are adjusted to the proper frequency except that in the case of operation in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section during any week, the test in that week may be omitted provided the operation under paragraph (c) of this section is satisfactory. A record shall be kept of the time and result of each test. Such records shall be retained for a period of two years.

(e) The auxiliary transmitters shall be equipped with satisfactory control equipment which will enable the maintenance of the frequency emitted by the station within the limits prescribed by the regulations in this part.

(f) The operating power of an auxiliary transmitter may be less but not greater than the authorized power of the main transmitters.

