(a) A licensee of an international broadcast station shall render only an international broadcast service which will reflect the culture of this country and which will promote international goodwill, understanding, and cooperation. Any program solely intended for and directed to an audience in the continental United States does not meet the requirements for this service.

(b) Such international broadcast service may include commercial or sponsored programs: Provided, That:

(1) Commercial program continuities give no more than the name of the sponsor of the program and the name and general character of the commodity, utility or service, or attraction advertised.

(2) In case of advertising a commodity, the commodity is regularly sold or is being promoted for sale on the open market in the foreign country or countries to which the program is directed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) In case of advertising an American utility or service to prospective tourists or visitors to the United States, the advertisement continuity is particularly directed to such persons in the foreign country or countries where they reside and to which the program is directed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) In case of advertising an international attraction (such as a world fair, resort, spa, etc.) to prospective tourists or visitors to the United States, the oral continuity concerning such attraction is consistent with the purpose and intent of this section.

(5) In case of any other type of advertising, such advertising is directed to the foreign country or countries to which the program is directed and is consistent with the purpose and intent of this section.

(c) The geographic areas to be served by international broadcasting stations are the zones and areas of reception shown in § 73.703.

(d) An international broadcast station may transmit the program of a AM broadcast station or network system: Provided, That the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section as to any commercial continuities are observed and when station identifications are made, only the call letter designation of the international station is given and its assigned frequency: And provided further, That in the case of chain broadcasting the program is not carried simultaneously by another international station (except another station owned by the same licensee operated on a frequency in a different group to obtain continuity of signal service), the signals from which are directed to the same area. (See section 3(p) of the Communications Act of 1934 for the definition of “chain broadcasting.”)

