(a) An LPFM station is required to provide copies of all complaints alleging that the signal of such LPFM station is interfering with or impairing the reception of the signal of a full power station to such affected full power station.

(b) A full power station shall review all complaints it receives, either directly or indirectly, from listeners regarding alleged interference caused by the operations of an LPFM station. Such full power station shall also identify those that qualify as bona fide complaints under this section and promptly provide such LPFM station with copies of all bona fide complaints. A bona fide complaint:

(1) Is a complaint alleging third adjacent channel interference caused by an LPFM station that has its transmitter site located within the predicted 60 dBu contour of the affected full power station as such contour existed as of the date the LPFM station construction permit was granted;

(2) Must be in the form of an affidavit, and state the nature and location of the alleged interference;

(3) Must involve a fixed receiver located within the 60 dBu contour of the affected full power station and not more than one kilometer from the LPFM transmitter site; and

(4) Must be received by either the LPFM or full power station within one year of the date on which the LPFM station commenced broadcasts with its currently authorized facilities.

(c) An LPFM station will be given a reasonable opportunity to resolve all interference complaints. A complaint will be considered resolved where the complainant does not reasonably cooperate with an LPFM station's remedial efforts.

(d) In the event that the number of unresolved complaints plus the number of complaints for which the source of interference remains in dispute equals at least one percent of the households within one kilometer of the LPFM transmitter site or thirty households, whichever is less, the LPFM and full power stations must cooperate in an “on-off” test to determine whether the interference is traceable to the LPFM station.

(e) If the number of unresolved and disputed complaints exceeds the numeric threshold specified in subsection (d) following an “on-off” test, the full power station may request that the Commission initiate a proceeding to consider whether the LPFM station license should be modified or cancelled, which will be completed by the Commission within 90 days. Parties may seek extensions of the 90 day deadline consistent with Commission rules.

(f) An LPFM station may stay any procedures initiated pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section by voluntarily ceasing operations and filing an application for facility modification within twenty days of the commencement of such procedures.

