Minimum separation requirements for LP100 and LP10 stations, as defined in §§ 73.811 and 73.853, are listed in the following paragraphs. An LPFM station will not be authorized unless the co-channel, first- and second-adjacent and IF channel separations are met. An LPFM station need not satisfy the third-adjacent channel separations listed in paragraphs (a) through (d) in order to be authorized. Minimum distances for co-channel and first-adjacent channel are separated into two columns. The left-hand column lists the required minimum separation to protect other stations and the right-hand column lists (for informational purposes only) the minimum distance necessary for the LPFM station to receive no interference from other stations assumed to be operating at the maximum permitted facilities for the station class. For second-adjacent channel and I.F. channels, the required minimum distance separation is sufficient to avoid interference received from other stations.

(a)(1) An LP100 station will not be authorized initially unless the minimum distance separations in the following table are met with respect to authorized FM stations, applications for new and existing FM stations filed prior to the release of the public notice announcing an LPFM window period for LP100 stations, authorized LP100 stations, LP100 station applications that were timely-filed within a previous window, and vacant FM allotments. LP100 stations are not required to protect LP10 stations. LPFM modification applications must either meet the distance separations in the following table or, if short-spaced, not lessen the spacing to subsequently authorized stations.
              

(2) LP100 stations must satisfy the second-adjacent channel minimum distance separation requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section with respect to any third-adjacent channel FM station that, as of September 20, 2000 (the adoption date of this MO&O) broadcasts a radio reading service via a subcarrier frequency.

(b)(1) An LP10 station will not be authorized unless the minimum distance separations in the following table are met with respect to authorized FM stations, applications for new and existing FM stations filed prior to the release of the public notice announcing an LPFM window period for LP10 stations, vacant FM allotments, or LPFM stations.

(2) LP10 stations must satisfy the second-adjacent channel minimum distance separation requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section with respect to any third-adjacent channel FM station that, as of September 20, 2000 (the adoption date of this MO&O) broadcasts a radio reading service via a subcarrier frequency.

(c) In addition to meeting or exceeding the minimum separations for Class LP100 and Class LP10 stations in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, new LP100 and LP10 stations will not be authorized in Puerto Rico or the Virgin Islands unless the minimum distance separations in the following tables are met with respect to authorized or proposed FM stations:
              

(1) LP100 stations in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands:

(2) LP10 stations in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands:

(d) In addition to meeting the separations (a) through (c), LPFM applications must meet the minimum separation requirements with respect to authorized FM translator stations, cutoff FM translator applications, and FM translator applications filed prior to the release of the Public Notice announcing the LPFM window period:

(1) LP100 stations:

(2) LP10 Stations:
              

(e) Existing Class LP100 and LP10 stations which do not meet the separations in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section may be relocated provided that the separation to any short-spaced station is not reduced.

(f) Commercial and noncommercial educational stations authorized under subparts B and C of this part, as well as new or modified commercial FM allotments, are not required to adhere to the separations specified in this rule section, even where new or increased interference would be created.

(g) International considerations within the border zones. (1) Within 320 km of the Canadian border, LP100 stations must meet the following minimum separations with respect to any Canadian stations:

(2) Within 320 km of the Mexican border, LP100 stations must meet the following separations with respect to any Mexican stations:

(3) Within 320 km of the Canadian border, LP10 stations must meet the following minimum separations with respect to any Canadian stations:

(4) Within 320 km of the Mexican border, LP10 stations must meet the following separations with respect to any Mexican stations:

(5) The Commission will notify the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) of any LPFM authorizations in the US Virgin Islands. Any authorization issued for a US Virgin Islands LPFM station will include a condition that permits the Commission to modify, suspend or terminate without right to a hearing if found by the Commission to be necessary to conform to any international regulations or agreements.

(6) The Commission will initiate international coordination of a LPFM proposal even where the above Canadian and Mexican spacing tables are met, if it appears that such coordination is necessary to maintain compliance with international agreements.

