(a) Authorized digital output protection technology means a technology approved pursuant to the procedures in § 73.9008.

(b) Authorized recording method means a recording method approved pursuant to the procedures in § 73.9008.

(c) Bona fide reseller means a party regularly engaged, or about to become regularly engaged, in the lawful commercial enterprise of selling, reselling, manufacturing, or assembling demodulators, or products incorporating demodulators, in compliance with this subpart.

(d) Broadcast flag means the redistribution control descriptor (rc_descriptor()) described in ATSC A/65B: “ Standard: Program and System Information Protocol for Terrestrial Broadcast and Cable (Revision B),” (incorporated by reference, see § 73.8000).

(e) Computer product means a product that is designed for or permits the end user to install a wide variety of commercially available software applications thereon, such as a personal computer, handheld “Personal Digital Assistant” and the like, and further includes a subsystem of such a product, such as a graphics card.

(f) Covered demodulator product means a product that is required under §§ 73.9002(a)(1) or 73.9002(b)(1) to comply with the demodulator compliance requirements, and to be manufactured in accordance with the demodulator robustness requirements.

(g) Demodulator means a component, or set of components, that is designed to perform the function of 8-VSB, 16-VSB, 64-QAM or 256-QAM demodulation and thereby produce a data stream for the purpose of digital television reception.

(h) Demodulator compliance requirements means the requirements set out in §§ 73.9003 through 73.9006.

(i) Demodulator robustness requirements means the requirements set out in § 73.9007.
              

(j) Peripheral TSP product means a product that is capable of accessing in usable form unscreened content or marked content passed to such product via a robust method where the manufacturer of such product has committed in writing in accordance with § 73.9002(c) that such product will comply with the demodulator compliance requirements and be manufactured in accordance with the demodulator robustness requirements.

(k) EIT means Event Information Table as defined in ATSC A/65C: “ATSC Program and System Information Protocol for Terrestrial Broadcast and Cable, Revision C With Amendment No. 1 dated May 9, 2006,” (January 2, 2006), (incorporated by reference, see § 73.8000).

(l) Marked content means, with respect to a Covered demodulator product, Unencrypted digital terrestrial broadcast content that such product has

(1) Received and demodulated and for which such product has inspected either the EIT or PMT and determined the broadcast flag to be present, or

(2) Where such product is a peripheral TSP product, received via a robust method and accessed in usable form, and for which such product either inspected the EIT or PMT and determined the broadcast flag to be present or determined through information robustly conveyed with such content that another covered demodulator product had previously so screened such content and determined the broadcast flag to be present; provided, however, that, with respect to a covered demodulator product, marked content shall not include content that has been passed from such product pursuant to §§ 73.9004(a)(1), 73.9004(a)(2), 73.9004(a)(3), 73.9004(a)(5), 73.9004(a)(6), or 73.9006(b).

(m) PMT means program map table as defined in International Standard ISO/IEC 13818-1:2000(E): “Information Technology—Generic Coding of Moving Pictures and Associated Audio Information: Systems” (incorporated by reference, see § 73.8000).

(n) Robust method means, with respect to the passing of unscreened content or marked content from one product to another, a content protection method that complies with § 73.9007.

(o) Transitory image means data that has been stored temporarily for the sole purpose of enabling a function not prohibited by this subpart but that (1) does not persist materially after such function has been performed and (2) is not stored in a way that permits copying or storing of such data for other purposes.

(p) Unencrypted digital terrestrial broadcast content means audiovisual content contained in the signal broadcast by a digital television station without encrypting or otherwise making the content available through a technical means of conditional access, and includes such content when retransmitted in unencrypted digital form.

(q) Unscreened content means, with respect to a covered demodulator product, unencrypted digital terrestrial broadcast content that such product either:

(1) Received and demodulated and for which such product has inspected neither the EIT nor the PMT for the broadcast flag; or

(2) Where such product is a peripheral TSP product, received via a robust method and accessed in usable form, and for which such product has inspected neither the EIT nor the PMT for the broadcast flag and has not determined through information robustly conveyed with such content another covered demodulator product had previously so screened such content and determined the broadcast flag to be present; provided, however, that, with respect to a covered demodulator product, unscreened content shall not include content that has been passed from such product pursuant to §§ 73.9003(a)(1), 73.9003(a)(2), 73.9003(a)(3), 73.9003(a)(4), 73.9003(a)(6), 73.9003(a)(7), or 73.9006(b).

(r) User accessible bus means a data bus that is designed for end user upgrades or access, such as an implementation of a smartcard interface, PCMCIA, Cardbus, or PCI that has standard sockets or otherwise readily facilitates end user access. A user accessible bus does not include memory buses, CPU buses, or similar portions of a device's internal architecture that do not permit access to content in a form usable by end users.

