(a) Subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, a license for an FM broadcast translator station may be issued to any qualified individual, organized group of individuals, broadcast station licensee, or local civil governmental body, upon an appropriate showing that plans for financing the installation and operation of the translator are sufficiently sound to assure prompt construction of the translator and dependable service.

(b) More than one FM translator may be licensed to the same applicant, whether or not such translators serve substantially the same area, upon an appropriate showing of technical need for such additional stations. FM translators are not counted as FM stations for the purpose of § 73.3555 of this chapter concerning multiple ownership.
                                

(c) Only one input and one output channel will be assigned to each FM translator. Additional FM translators may be authorized to provide additional reception. A separate application is required for each FM translator and each application shall be complete in all respects.

(d) An authorization for an FM translator whose coverage contour extends beyond the protected contour of the commercial primary station will not be granted to the licensee or permittee of a commercial FM radio broadcast station. Similarly, such authorization will not be granted to any person or entity having any interest whatsoever, or any connection with a primary FM station. Interested and connected parties extend to group owners, corporate parents, shareholders, officers, directors, employees, general and limited partners, family members and business associates. For the purposes of this paragraph, the protected contour of the primary station shall be defined as follows: the predicted 0.5mV/m contour for commercial Class B stations, the predicted 0.7 mV/m contour for commercial Class B1 stations and the predicted 1 mV/m field strength contour for all other FM radio broadcast stations. The contours shall be as predicted in accordance with § 73.313(a) through (d) of this chapter. In the case of an FM radio broadcast station authorized with facilities in excess of those specified by § 73.211 of this chapter, a co-owned commercial FM translator will only be authorized within the protected contour of the class of station being rebroadcast, as predicted on the basis of the maximum powers and heights set forth in that section for the applicable class of FM broadcast station concerned. An FM translator station in operation prior to March 1, 1991, which is owned by a commercial FM (primary) station and whose coverage contour extends beyond the protected contour of the primary station, may continue to be owned by such primary station until March 1, 1994. Thereafter, any such FM translator station must be owned by independent parties. An FM translator station in operation prior to June 1, 1991, which is owned by a commercial FM radio broadcast station and whose coverage contour extends beyond the protected contour of the primary station, may continue to be owned by a commercial FM radio broadcast station until June 1, 1994. Thereafter, any such FM translator station must be owned by independent parties. An FM translator providing service to an AM fill-in area will be authorized only to the permittee or licensee of the AM radio broadcast station being rebroadcast, or, in the case of an FM translator authorized to operate on an unreserved channel, to a party with a valid rebroadcast consent agreement with such a permittee or licensee to rebroadcast that station as the translator's primary station. In addition, any FM translator providing service to an AM fill-in area must have been authorized by a license or construction permit in effect as of May 1, 2009. A subsequent modification of any such FM translator will not affect its eligibility to rebroadcast an AM signal.

(e) An FM translator station whose coverage contour goes beyond the protected contour of the commercial primary station shall not receive any support, before or after construction, either directly or indirectly, from the commercial primary FM radio broadcast station. Such support also may not be received from any person or entity having any interest whatsoever, or any connection with the primary FM station. Interested and connected parties extend to group owners, corporate parents, shareholders, officers, directors, employees, general and limited partners, family members and business associates. Such an FM translator station may, however, receive technical assistance from the primary station to the extent of installing or repairing equipment or making adjustments to equipment to assure compliance with the terms of the translator station's construction permit and license. FM translator stations in operation prior to March 1, 1991 may continue to receive contributions or support from the commercial primary station for the operation and maintenance of the translator station until March, 1, 1994. Thereafter, any such FM translator station shall be subject to the prohibitions on support contained in this section. Such an FM translator station may, however, receive technical assistance from the primary station to the extent of installing or repairing equipment or making adjustments to equipment to assure compliance with the terms of the translator station's construction permit and license. FM translator stations in operation prior to June 1, 1991 may continue to receive contributions or support from a commercial FM radio broadcast station for the operation and maintenance of the translator station until June 1, 1994. Thereafter, any such FM translator station shall be subject to the prohibitions on support contained in this section.
                                

(f) An FM broadcast booster station will be authorized only to the licensee or permittee of the FM radio broadcast station whose signals the booster station will retransmit, to serve areas within the protected contour of the primary station, subject to Note, § 74.1231(h) of this part.

(g) No numerical limit is placed upon the number of FM booster stations which may be licensed to a single licensee. A separate application is required for each FM booster station. FM broadcast booster stations are not counted as FM broadcast stations for the purposes of § 73.5555 of this chapter concerning multiple ownership.

(h) Any authorization for an FM translator station issued to an applicant described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section will be issued subject to the condition that it may be terminated at any time, upon not less than sixty (60) days written notice, where the circumstances in the community or area served are so altered as to have prohibited grant of the application had such circumstances existed at the time of its filing.

