The provisions of this section apply to all applications for construction permits for new or modified facilities for a noncommercial educational FM translator station on Channels 201-220, unless the application is accompanied by a written agreement between the NCE-FM translator applicant and each affected TV Channel 6 broadcast station licensee or permittee concurring with the proposed NCE-FM translator facility.

(a) An application for a construction permit for new or modified facilities for a noncommercial educational FM translator station operating on Channels 201-220 must include a showing that demonstrates compliance with paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of this section if it is within the following distances of a TV broadcast station which is authorized to operate on Channel 6.

(b) Collocated stations. An application for a noncommercial educational FM translator station operating on Channels 201-220 and located at 0.4 kilometer (approximately 0.25 mile) or less from a TV Channel 6 station will be accepted if it includes a certification that the applicant has coordinated its antenna with the affected TV station.

(c) Contour overlap. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an application for a noncommercial educational FM translator station operating on Channels 201-220 will not be accepted if the proposed operation would involve overlap of its interference field strength contour with any TV Channel 6 station's Grade B contour, as set forth below.

(1) The distances to the TV Channel 6 station Grade B (47 dBu) field strength contour will be predicted according to the procedures specified in ยง 73.684 of this chapter, using the F(50,50) curves in ยง 73.699, Figure 9 of this chapter.

(2) The distances to the applicable noncommercial educational FM translator interference contour will be predicted according to the procedures specified in ยง 74.1204(b) of this part.

(3) The applicable noncommercial educational FM translator interference contours are as follows:

(d) FM translator stations authorized prior to June 1, 1991 with facilities that do not comply with the predicted interference protection provisions of this section, may continue to operate, provided that operation is in conformance with ยง 74.1203 regarding actual interference. Applications for major changes in FM translator stations must specify facilities that comply with the provisions of this section.

