(a) FM translator. A station in the broadcasting service operated for the purpose of retransmitting the signals of an AM or FM radio broadcast station or another FM broadcast translator station without significantly altering any characteristics of the incoming signal other than its frequency and amplitude, in order to provide radio broadcast service to the general public.

(b) Commercial FM translator. An FM broadcast translator station which rebroadcasts the signals of a commercial AM or FM radio broadcast station.

(c) Noncommercial FM translator. An FM broadcast translator station which rebroadcasts the signals of a noncommercial educational AM or FM radio broadcast station.

(d) Primary station. The AM or FM radio broadcast station radiating the signals which are retransmitted by an FM broadcast translator station or an FM broadcast booster station.

(e) AM or FM radio broadcast station. When used in this Subpart L, the term AM broadcast station or AM radio broadcast station or FM broadcast station or FM radio broadcast station refers to commercial and noncommercial educational AM or FM radio broadcast stations as defined in ยง 2.1 of this chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise.

(f) FM broadcast booster station. A station in the broadcasting service operated for the sole purpose of retransmitting the signals of an FM radio broadcast station, by amplifying and reradiating such signals, without significantly altering any characteristic of the incoming signal other than its amplitude.

(g) Translator coverage contour. For a fill-in FM translator rebroadcasting an FM radio broadcast station as its primary station, the FM translator's coverage contour must be contained within the primary station's coverage contour. For purposes of this rule section, the coverage contour of the FM translator has the same field strength value as the protected contour of the primary FM station (i.e., for a commercial Class B FM station it is the predicted 0.5 mV/m field strength contour, for a commercial Class B1 FM station it is the predicted 0.7 mV/m field strength contour, and for all other classes of FM stations it is the predicted 1 mV/m field strength contour). The coverage contour of an FM translator rebroadcasting an AM radio broadcast station as its primary station must be contained within the lesser of the 2 mV/m daytime contour of the AM station and a 25-mile (40 km) radius centered at the AM transmitter site. The protected contour for an FM translator station is its predicted 1 mV/m contour.

(h) Fill-in area. The area where the coverage contour of an FM translator or booster station is within the protected contour of the associated primary station (i.e., predicted 0.5 mV/m contour for commercial Class B stations, predicted 0.7 mV/m contour for commercial Class B1 stations, and predicted 1 mV/m contour for all other classes of stations).

(i) Other area. The area where the coverage contour of an FM translator station extends beyond the protected contour of the primary station (i.e., predicted 0.5 mV/m contour for commercial Class B stations, predicted 0.7 mV/m contour for commercial Class B1 stations, and predicted 1 mV/m contour for all other classes of stations).

(j) AM Fill-in area. The area within the lesser of the 2 mV/m daytime contour of the AM radio broadcast station being rebroadcast and a 25-mile (40 km) radius centered at the AM transmitter site.

