(a) Special temporary authority may be granted for remote pickup station operation which cannot be conducted in accordance with ยง 74.24. Such authority will normally be granted only for operations of a temporary nature. Where operation is seen as likely on a continuing annual basis, an application for a regular authorization should be submitted.

(b) A request for special temporary authority for the operation of a remote pickup broadcast station must be made in accordance with the procedures of ยง 1.931(b) of this chapter.

(c) All requests for special temporary authority of a remote pickup broadcast station must include full particulars including: licensee's name and address, facility identification number of the associated broadcast station or stations, call letters of remote pickup station (if assigned), type and manufacturer of equipment, power output, emission, frequency or frequencies proposed to be used, commencement and termination date, location of operation and purpose for which request is made including any particular justification.

(d) A request for special temporary authority shall specify a frequency or frequencies consistent with the provisions of ยง 74.402: Provided, That, in the case of events of wide-spread interest and importance which cannot be transmitted successfully on these frequencies, frequencies assigned to other services may be requested upon a showing that operation thereon will not cause interference to established stations: And provided further, In no case will operation of a remote pickup broadcast station be authorized on frequencies employed for the safety of life and property.

(e) The user shall have full control over the transmitting equipment during the period it is operated.

(f) Special temporary authority to permit operation of remote pickup broadcast stations or systems pending Commission action on an application for regular authority will not normally be granted.

