
                Associated broadcasting station(s). The broadcasting station or stations with which a remote pickup broadcast station or system is licensed as an auxiliary and with which it is principally used.


                Authorized bandwidth. The occupied or necessary bandwidth, whichever is greater, authorized to be used by a station.


                Automatic relay station. A remote pickup broadcast base station which is actuated by automatic means and is used to relay transmissions between remote pickup broadcast base and mobile stations, between remote pickup broadcast mobile stations and from remote pickup broadcast mobile stations to broadcasting stations. (Automatic operation is not operation by remote control.)


                Carrier power. The average power at the output terminals of a transmitter (other than a transmitter having a suppressed, reduced or controlled carrier) during one radio frequency cycle under conditions of no modulation.


                Mean power. The power at the output terminals of a transmitter during normal operation, averaged over a time sufficiently long compared with the period of the lowest frequency encountered in the modulation. A time of 1/10 second during which the mean power is greatest will be selected normally.


                Necessary bandwidth. For a given class of emission, the minimum value of the occupied bandwidth sufficient to ensure the transmission of information at the rate and with the quality required for the system employed, under specified conditions. Emissions useful for the good functioning of the receiving equipment, as for example, the emission corresponding to the carrier of reduced carrier systems, shall be included in the necessary bandwidth.


                Occupied bandwidth. The frequency bandwidth such that, below its lower and above its upper frequency limits, the mean powers radiated are each equal to 0.5 percent of the total mean power radiated by a given emission.


                Operational communications. Communications concerning the technical and programming operation of a broadcast station and its auxiliaries.


                Remote control operation. Operation of a base station by a properly designated person on duty at a control position from which the transmitter is not visible but that position is equipped with suitable controls so that essential functions can be performed therefrom.


                Remote pickup broadcast base station. A remote pickup broadcast station authorized for operation at a specified location.


                Remote pickup broadcast mobile station. A remote pickup broadcast station authorized for use while in motion or during halts at unspecified locations. (As used in this subpart, mobile stations include hand-carried, pack-carried and other portable transmitters.)


                Remote pickup broadcast stations. A term used in this subpart to include both remote pickup broadcast base stations and remote pickup broadcast mobile stations.


                Remote pickup mobile repeater unit. A vehicular receiver-transmitter repeater used to provide extended communications range for a low-power hand-carried or pack-carried transmitter.


                Station. As used in this subpart, each remote pickup broadcast transmitter, and its associated accessory equipment necessary to the radio communication function, constitutes a separate station.


                Studio. Any room or series of rooms equipped for the regular production of broadcast programs of various kinds. A broadcasting booth at a stadium, convention hall, church, or other similar place is not considered to be a studio.
              


                Systems. A complete remote pickup broadcast facility consisting of one or more mobile stations and/or one or more base stations authorized pursuant to a single license.

