(a) Each remote pickup broadcast station shall be identified by the transmission of the assigned station or system call sign, or by the call sign of the associated broadcast station. For systems, the licensee (including those operating pursuant to § 74.24 of this part) shall assign a unit designator to each station in the system. The call sign (and unit designator, where appropriate) shall be transmitted at the beginning and end of each period of operation. A period of operation may consist of a single continuous transmission, or a series of intermittent transmissions pertaining to a single event.

(b) In cases where a period of operation is of more than one hour duration identification of remote pickup broadcast stations participating in the operation shall be made at approximately one-hour intervals. Identification transmissions during operation need not be made when to make such transmissions would interrupt a single consecutive speech, play, religious service, symphony, concert, or any type of production. In such cases, the identification transmissions shall be made at the first interruption in the program continuity and at the conclusion thereof. Hourly identification may be accomplished either by transmission of the station or system call sign and unit designator assigned to the individual station or identification of an associated broadcasting station or network with which the remote pickup broadcast station is being used.

(c) In cases where an automatic relay station is a part of the circuit, the call sign of the relay transmitter may be transmitted automatically by the relay transmitter or by the remote pickup broadcast base or mobile station that actuates the automatic relay station.

(d) Automatically activated equipment may be used to transmit station identification in International Morse Code, provided that the modulation tone is 1200 Hz±800 Hz, the level of modulation of the identification signal is maintained at 40%±10%, and that the code transmission rate is maintained between 20 and 25 words per minute.

(e) For stations using F1E or G1E emissions, identification shall be transmitted in the unscrambled analog (F3E) mode or in International Morse Code pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section at intervals not to exceed 15 minutes. For purposes of rule enforcement, all licensees using F1E or G1E emissions shall provide, upon request by the Commission, a full and complete description of the encoding methodology they currently use.
              

