(a) Each aural broadcast STL or intercity relay station, when transmitting program material or information shall transmit station identification at the beginning and end of each period of operation, and hourly, as close to the hour as feasible, at a natural break in program offerings by one of the following means:

(1) Transmission of its own call sign by aural means or by automatic transmission of international Morse telegraphy.

(2) Aural transmission of the call sign of the radio broadcast station with which it is licensed as an STL or intercity relay station.

(3) Aural transmission of the call sign of the radio broadcast station whose signals are being relayed, or, when programs are obtained directly from network lines and relayed, the network identification.

(b) Station identification transmissions during operation need not be made when to make such transmission would interrupt a single consecutive speech, play, religious service, symphony concert, or other such productions. In such cases, the identification transmission shall be made at the first interruption of the entertainment continuity and at the conclusion thereof.

(c) Where more than one aural broadcast STL or intercity relay station is employed in an integrated relay system, the station at the point of origination may originate the transmission of the call signs of all of the stations in the relay system.

(d) Aural broadcast microwave booster stations will be assigned individual call signs. However, station identification will be accomplished by the retransmission of identification as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) Voice transmissions shall normally be employed for station identification. However, other methods of station identification may be permitted or required by the Commission.

