(a) An aural broadcast STL station is authorized to transmit aural program material between the studio and transmitter location of a broadcasting station, except an international broadcasting station, for simultaneous or delayed broadcast.

(b) An aural broadcast intercity relay station is authorized to transmit aural program material between broadcasting stations, except international broadcasting stations, for simultaneous or delayed broadcast.

(c) An aural broadcast intercity relay station is authorized to transmit aural program material between noncommercial educational FM radio stations and their co-owned noncommercial educational FM translator stations assigned to reserved channels (Channels 201 to 220) and between FM radio stations and FM translator stations operating within the coverage contour of their primary stations. This use shall not interfere with or otherwise preclude use of these broadcast auxiliary facilities by broadcast auxiliary stations transmitting aural programming between broadcast stations as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) An aural broadcast STL or intercity relay may be used to transmit material between an FM broadcast radio station and an FM booster station owned, operated, and controlled by the licensee of the originating FM radio station. This use shall not interfere with or otherwise preclude use of these broadcast auxiliary facilities by broadcast auxiliary stations transmitting aural programming between the studio and transmitter location of a broadcast station or between broadcast stations as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(e) An aural broadcast microwave booster station is authorized to retransmit the signals of an aural broadcast STL or intercity relay station.

(f) Multiplexing of the STL or intercity relay transmitter may be employed to provide additional communication channels for the transmission of aural program material, news-wire teleprinter signals relaying news to be associated with main channel programming, operational communications, and material authorized to be transmitted over an FM station under a valid Subsidiary Communications Authorization (SCA). An aural broadcast STL or intercity relay station may not be operated solely for the transmission of operational, teleprinter or subsidiary communications. Operational communications include cues, orders, and other communications directly related to the operation of the broadcast station as well as special signals used for telemetry or the control of apparatus used in conjunction with the broadcasting operations.

(g) All program material, including subsidiary communications, transmitted over an aural broadcast STL or intercity relay station shall be intended for use by broadcast stations owned or under common control of the licensee or licensees of the STL or intercity relay station. Other broadcast stations may simultaneously utilize such program material with permission of the STL or intercity relay station licensee.

(h) In any case where multiplexing, is employed on an aural broadcast STL station for the simultaneous transmission of more than one aural channel, the STL transmitter must be capable of transmitting the multiple channels within the channel on which the STL station is authorized to operate and with adequate technical quality so that each broadcast station utilizing the circuit can meet the technical performance standards stipulated in the rules governing that class of broadcasting station. If multiplex operation is employed during the regular operation of the STL station, the additional circuits shall be in operation at the time that the required periodic performance measurements are made of the overall broadcasting system from the studio microphone input circuit to the broadcast transmitter output circuit.

