(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, all transmitting equipment first marketed for use under this subpart or placed into service after October 1, 1981, must be authorized under the certification or verification procedure, as detailed in paragraph (f) of this section. Equipment which is used at a station licensed prior to October 1, 1985, which has not been authorized as detailed in paragraph (f) of this section, may continue to be used by the licensee or its successors or assignees, provided that if operation of such equipment causes harmful interference due to its failure to comply with the technical standards set forth in this subpart, the FCC may, at its discretion, require the licensee to take such corrective action as is necessary to eliminate the interference. However, such equipment may not be further marketed or reused under part 74 after October 1, 1985.

(b) Certification or verification is not required for transmitters used in conjunction with TV pickup stations operating with a peak output power not greater than 250 mW. Pickup stations operating in excess of 250 mW licensed pursuant to applications accepted for filing prior to October 1, 1980 may continue operation subject to periodic renewal. If operation of such equipment causes harmful interference the FCC may, at its discretion, require the licensee to take such corrective action as is necessary to eliminate the interference.

(c) The license of a TV auxiliary station may replace transmitting equipment with authorized equipment, as detailed under paragraph (f) of this section, without prior FCC approval, provided the proposed changes will not depart from any of the terms of the station or system authorization or the Commission's technical rules governing this service, and also provided that any changes made to authorized transmitting equipment is in compliance with the provisions of part 2 of the FCC rules concerning modifications to authorized equipment.

(d) Any manufacturer of a transmitter to be used in this service may authorize the equipment under the certification or verification procedure, as appropriate, following the procedures set forth in subpart J of part 2 of the FCC rules.

(e) An applicant for a TV broadcast auxiliary station may also authorize an individual transmitter, as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, by following the procedures set forth in subpart J of part 2 of the FCC rules and regulations.

(f) Transmitters designed to be used exclusively for a TV STL station, a TV intercity relay station, a TV translator relay station, or a TV microwave booster station, shall be authorized under verification. All other transmitters will be authorized under the certification procedure.

