(a) The licensee of a television pickup station authorizes the transmission of program material, orders concerning such program material, and related communications necessary to the accomplishment of such transmissions, from the scenes of events occurring in places other than a television studio, to its associated television broadcast station, to an associated television relay station, to such other stations as are broadcasting the same program material, or to the network or networks with which the television broadcast station is affiliated. Television pickup stations may be operated in conjunction with other television broadcast stations not aformentioned in this paragraph: Provided, That the transmissions by the television pickup station are under the control of the licensee of the television pickup station and that such operation shall not exceed a total of 10 days in any 30-day period. Television pickup stations may be used to provide temporary studio-transmitter links or intercity relay circuits consistent with ยง 74.632 without further authority of the Commission: Provided, however, That prior Commission authority shall be obtained if the transmitting antenna to be installed will increase the height of any natural formation or man-made structure by more than 6.1 meters (20 feet) and will be in existence for a period of more than 2 consecutive days.
              

(b) A television broadcast STL station is authorized to transmit visual program material between the studio and the transmitter of a television broadcast station for simultaneous or delayed broadcast.

(c) A TV relay station is authorized to transmit visual program material between TV broadcast stations for simultaneous or delayed broadcast, or may be used to transmit visual program material from a remote pickup receiver site of a single station.

(d) The transmitter of an STL, TV relay station or TV translator relay station may be multiplexed to provide additional communication channels. A TV broadcast STL or TV relay station will be authorized only in those cases where the principal use is the transmission of television broadcast program material for use by its associated TV broadcast station. However, STL or TV relay stations so licensed may be operated at any time for the transmission of multiplexed communications whether or not visual program material is being transmitted, provided that such operation does not cause harmful interference to TV broadcast pickup, STL or TV relay stations transmitting television broadcast program material.

(e) Except as provided in paragraphs (a), (d), (f) and (j) of this section, all program material transmitted over a TV pickup, STL, or TV relay station shall be used by or intended for use by a TV broadcast station owned by or under the common control of the licensee of the TV pickup, STL, or TV relay station. Program material transmitted over a TV pickup, STL or TV relay station and so used by the licensee of such facility may, with the permission of the licensee of the broadcast auxiliary facility, be used by other TV broadcast stations and by non-broadcast closed circuit educational TV systems operated by educational institutions.

(f) A TV broadcast pickup, STL, or TV relay station may be used for the transmission of material to be used by others, including but not limited to other broadcast stations, cable television systems, and educational institutions. This use shall not interfere with the use of these broadcast auxiliary facilities for the transmission of programs and associated material intended to be used by the television station or stations licensed to or under common control of the licensee of the TV pickup, STL, or TV relay station. This use of the broadcast auxiliary facilities must not cause harmful interference to broadcast auxiliary stations operating in accordance with the basic frequency allocation, and the licensee of the TV pickup, STL, or TV relay station must retain exclusive control over the operation of the facilities. Prior to operating pursuant to the provisions of this section, the licensee shall, for the intended location or area-of-operation, notify the appropriate frequency coordinatioin committee or any licensee(s) assigned the use of the proposed operating frequency, concerning the particulars of the intended operation and must provide the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted in the event of interference.

(g) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, a television translator relay station is authorized for the purpose of relaying the programs and signals of a television broadcast station to television broadcast translator stations for simultaneous retransmission.

(h) A TV microwave booster station is authorized to retransmit the signals of a TV pickup, TV STL, TV relay, or TV translator relay station.

(i) TV broadcast auxiliary stations authorized pursuant to this subpart may additionally be authorized to supply programs and signals of TV broadcast stations to cable television systems or CARS stations. Where the licensee of a TV broadcast auxiliary station supplies programs and signals to cable television systems or CARS stations, the TV auxiliary licensee must have exclusive control over the operation of the TV auxiliary stations licensed to it. Contributions to capital and operating expenses may be accepted only on a cost-sharing, non-profit basis, prorated on an equitable basis among all parties being supplied with program material.

(j) A broadcast network-entity may use television auxiliary service stations to transmit their own television program materials to broadcast stations, other broadcast network-entities, cable systems and cable network-entities: Provided, however, that the bands 1990-2110 MHz, 6425-6525 MHz and 6875-7125 MHz may be used by broadcast network-entities only for television pick-up stations.

