(a) New Entrants are collectively defined as those licensees proposing to use emerging technologies to implement Mobile Satellite Services in the 2000-2020 MHz band (MSS licensees), those licensees authorized after July 1, 2004 to implement new Fixed and Mobile services in the 1990-1995 MHz band, and those licensees authorized after September 9, 2004 in the 1995-2000 MHz and 2020-2025 MHz bands. New entrants may negotiate with Broadcast Auxiliary Service licensees operating on a primary basis and fixed service licensees operating on a primary basis in the 1990-2025 MHz band (Existing Licensees) for the purpose of agreeing to terms under which the Existing Licensees would relocate their operations to the 2025-2110 MHz band, to other authorized bands, or to other media; or, alternatively, would discontinue use of the 1990-2025 MHz band. New licensees in the 1995-2000 MHz and 2020-2025 MHz bands are subject to the specific relocation procedures adopted in WT Docket 04-356.

(b) An Existing Licensee in the 1990-2025 MHz band allocated for licensed emerging technology services will maintain primary status in the band until the Existing Licensee's operations are relocated by a New Entrant, are discontinued under the terms of paragraph (a) of this section, or become secondary under the terms of paragraph (e)(6) of this section or the Existing Licensee indicates to a New Entrant that it declines to be relocated.

(c) The Commission will amend the operating license of the Existing Licensee to secondary status only if the following requirements are met:

(1) The service applicant, provider, licensee, or representative using an emerging technology guarantees payment of all relocation costs, including all engineering, equipment, site and FCC fees, as well as any reasonable additional costs that the relocated Existing Licensee might incur as a result of operation in another authorized band or migration to another medium;

(2) The New Entrant completes all activities necessary for implementing the replacement facilities, including engineering and cost analysis of the relocation procedure and, if radio facilities are used, identifying and obtaining, on the incumbents' behalf, new microwave or Local Television Transmission Service frequencies and frequency coordination.

(3) The New Entrant builds the replacement system and tests it for comparability with the existing system.

(d) The Existing Licensee is not required to relocate until the alternative facilities are available to it for a reasonable time to make adjustments, determine comparability, and ensure a seamless handoff. If, within one year after the relocation to new facilities the Existing Licensee demonstrates that the new facilities are not comparable to the former facilities, the New Entrant must remedy the defects.

(e) Subject to the terms of this paragraph (e), the relocation of Existing Licensees will be carried out by MSS licensees in the following manner:

(1) Existing Licensees and MSS licensees may negotiate individually or collectively for relocation of Existing Licensees to one of the channel plans specified in § 74.602(a)(3) of this chapter. Parties may not decline to negotiate, though Existing Licensees may decline to be relocated.

(i) MSS licensees may relocate all Existing Licensees in Nielsen Designated Market Areas (DMAs) 1-30, as such DMAs existed on September 6, 2000, and all fixed stations operating in the 1990-2025 MHz band on a primary basis, except those Existing Licensees that decline relocation. Such relocation negotiations shall be conducted as “mandatory negotiations,” as that term is used in § 101.73 of this chapter. If these parties are unable to reach a negotiated agreement, MSS Licensees may involuntarily relocate such Existing Licensees and fixed stations after December 8, 2004.
                              

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) On the date that the first MSS licensee begins operations in the 2000-2020 MHz band, a one-year mandatory negotiation period begins between MSS licensees and Existing Licensees in Nielsen DMAs 31-210, as such DMAs existed on September 6, 2000. After the end of the mandatory negotiation period, MSS licensees may involuntary relocate any Existing Licensees with which they have been unable to reach a negotiated agreement. As described elsewhere in this paragraph (e), MSS Licensees are obligated to relocate these Existing Licensees within the specified three- and five-year time periods.

(2) Before negotiating with MSS licensees, Existing Licensees in Nielsen Designated Market Areas where there is a BAS frequency coordinator must coordinate and select a band plan for the market area. If an Existing Licensee wishes to operate in the 2025-2110 MHz band using the channels A03-A07 as specified in the Table in § 74.602(a) of this part, then all licensees within that Existing Licensee's market must agree to such operation and all must operate on a secondary basis to any licensee operating on the channel plan specified in § 74.602(a)(3) of this part. All negotiations must produce solutions that adhere to the market area's band plan.

(3)-(4) [Reserved]

(5) As of the date the first MSS licensee begins operations in the 1990-2025 MHz band, MSS Licensees must relocate Existing Licensees in DMAs 31-100, as they existed as of September 6, 2000, within three years, and in the remaining DMAs, as they existed as of September 6, 2000, within five years.

(6) On December 9, 2013, all Existing Licensees will become secondary in the 1990-2025 MHz band. Upon written demand by any MSS licensee, Existing Licensees must cease operations in the 1990-2025 MHz band within six months.

