(a) Special temporary authority may be granted for TV broadcast auxiliary station operation which cannot be conducted in accordance with ยง 74.24. Such authority will normally be granted only for operations of a temporary nature. Where operation is seen as likely on a continuing annual basis, an application for a regular authorization should be submitted.
              

(b) A request for special temporary authority for the operation of a television broadcast auxiliary station must be made in accordance with the procedures of ยง 1.931(b) of this chapter.
              

(c) All requests for special temporary authority of a television broadcast auxiliary station must include full particulars including: licensee's name and address, facility identification number of the associated broadcast station(s) (if any), call letters of the television broadcast STL or intercity relay station (if assigned), type and manufacturer of equipment, effective isotropic radiated power, emission, frequency or frequencies proposed for use, commencement and termination date and location of the proposed operation, and purpose for which request is made including any particular justification.
              

(d) A request for special temporary authority shall specify a channel or channels consistent with the provisions of ยง 74.602: Provided, That in the case of events of wide-spread interest and importance which cannot be transmitted successfully on these frequencies, frequencies assigned to other services may be requested upon a showing that operation thereon will not cause interference to established stations: And provided further, That in no case will a television auxiliary broadcast operation be authorized on frequencies employed for the safety of life and property.
              

(e) When the transmitting equipment utilized is not licensed to the user, the user shall nevertheless have full control over the use of the equipment during the period it is operated.
              

(f) Special temporary authority to permit operation of a TV auxiliary broadcast station of any class pending FCC action on an application for regular authority will not normally be granted.
              

