(a) No change, either mechanical or electrical, may be made in apparatus which has been certificated by the Commission without prior authority of the Commission. If such prior authority has been given to the manufacturer of certificated equipment, the manufacturer may issue instructions for such changes citing its authority. In such cases, individual licensees are not required to secure prior Commission approval but shall notify the Commission when such changes are completed.

(b) Formal application (FCC Form 346) is required for any of the following changes:

(1) Replacement of the transmitter as a whole, except replacement with a transmitter of identical power rating which has been certificated by the FCC for use by low power TV, TV translator, and TV booster stations, or any change which could result in a change in the electrical characteristics or performance of the station.

(2) Any change in the transmitting antenna system, including the direction of radiation, directive antenna pattern, antenna gain, transmission line loss characteristics, or height of antenna center of radiation.

(3) Any change in the overall height of the antenna structure, except where notice to the Federal Aviation Administration is specifically not required under ยง 17.14(b) of this chapter.

(4) Any horizontal change of the location of the antenna structure which would (i) be in excess of 152.4 meters (500 feet), or (ii) require notice to the Federal Aviation Administration pursuant to ยง 17.7 of the FCC's Rules.

(5) A change in frequency assignment.

(6) Any changes in the location of the transmitter except within the same building or upon the same pole or tower.

(7) A change of authorized operating power.

(c) Other equipment changes not specifically referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be made at the discretion of the licensee, provided that the FCC in Washington, DC, Attention: Video Division, Media Bureau, is notified in writing upon the completion of such changes.

(d) Upon installation of new or replacement transmitting equipment for which prior FCC authority is not required under the provisions of this section, the licensee must place in the station records a certification that the new installation complies in all respects with the technical requirements of this part and the station authorization.

