(a)(1) An applicant for a digital LPTV or TV translator station construction permit shall specify that the station will be constructed to confine out-of-channel emissions within one of the following emission masks: Simple, stringent or full service.

(2) The power level of emissions on frequencies outside the authorized channel of operation must be attenuated no less than following amounts below the average transmitted power within the authorized 6 MHz channel. In the mask specifications listed in § 74.794(a)(2) and (a)(3), A is the attenuation in dB and Δf is the frequency difference in MHz from the edge of the channel.

(i) Simple mask. At the channel edges, emissions must be attenuated no less than 46 dB. More than 6 MHz from the channel edges, emissions must be attenuated no less than 71 dB. At any frequency between 0 and 6 MHz from the channel edges, emissions must be attenuated no less than the value determined by the following formula:
              

(ii) Stringent mask. In the first 500 kHz from the channel edges, emissions must be attenuated no less than 47 dB. More than 3 MHz from the channel edges, emissions must be attenuated no less than 76 dB. At any frequency between 0.5 and 3 MHz from the channel edges, emissions must be attenuated no less than the value determined by the following formula:
              

(iii) Full service mask: (A) The power level of emissions on frequencies outside the authorized channel of operation must be attenuated no less than the following amounts below the average transmitted power within the authorized channel. In the first 500 kHz from the channel edge the emissions must be attenuated no less than 47 dB. More than 6 MHz from the channel edge, emissions must be attenuated no less than 110 dB. At any frequency between 0.5 and 6 MHz from the channel edge, emissions must be attenuated no less than the value determined by the following formula:
              

(B) This attenuation is based on a measurement bandwidth of 500 kHz. Other measurement bandwidths may be used as long as appropriate correction factors are applied. Measurements need not be made any closer to the band edge than one half of the resolution bandwidth of the measuring instrument. Emissions include sidebands, spurious emissions and radio frequency harmonics. Attenuation is to be measured at the output terminals of the transmitter (including any filters that may be employed). In the event of interference caused to any service, greater attenuation may be required.

(3) The attenuation values for the simple and stringent emission masks are based on a measurement bandwidth of 500 kHz. Other measurement bandwidths may be used and converted to the reference 500 kHz value by the following formula:
              

(b) In addition to meeting the emission attenuation requirements of the simple or stringent mask (including attenuation of radio frequency harmonics), digital low power TV and TV translator stations authorized to operate on TV channels 22-24, (518-536 MHz), 32-36 (578-608 MHz), 38 (614-620 MHz), and 65-69 (776-806 MHz) must provide specific “out of band” protection to Radio Navigation Satellite Services in the bands: L5 (1164-1215 MHz); L2 (1215-1240 MHz) and L1 (1559-1610 MHz).

(1) An FCC-certificated transmitter specifically certified for use on one or more of the above channels must include filtering with an attenuation of not less than 85 dB in the GPS bands, which will have the effect of reducing harmonics in the GPS bands from what is produced by the digital transmitter, and this attenuation must be demonstrated as part of the certification application to the Commission.

(2) For an installation on one of the above channels with a digital transmitter not specifically FCC-certificated for the channel, a low pass filter or equivalent device rated by its manufacturer to have an attenuation of at least 85 dB in the GPS bands, which will have the effect of reducing harmonics in the GPS bands from what is produced by the digital transmitter, and must be installed in a manner that will prevent the harmonic emission content from reaching the antenna. A description of the low pass filter or equivalent device with the manufacturer's rating or a report of measurements by a qualified individual shall be retained with the station license. Field measurements of the second or third harmonic output of a transmitter so equipped are not required.

