(a) An applicant for a new low power television or television translator digital station or for changes in the facilities of an authorized digital station shall endeavor to select a channel on which its operation is not likely to cause interference. The applications must be specific with regard to the channel requested. Only one channel will be assigned each station.

(b) Any one of the 12 standard VHF Channels (2 to 13 inclusive) may be assigned to a VHF digital low power television or television translator station. Channels 5 and 6 assigned in Alaska shall not cause harmful interference to and must accept interference from non-Government fixed operation authorized prior to January 1, 1982.

(c) UHF channels 14 to 36 and 38 to 51 may be assigned to a UHF digital low power television or television translator station. In accordance with ยง 73.603(c) of this chapter, Channel 37 will not be assigned to such stations.

(d) UHF Channels 52-59 may be assigned to a digital low power television or television translator station for use as a digital conversion channel. These channels may also be assigned as a companion digital channel if the applicant is able to demonstrate that a suitable in core channel is not available. Stations proposing use of such channels shall notify all potentially affected 700 MHz wireless licensees not later than 30 days prior to the submission of their application (FCC Form 346). Applicants shall notify wireless licensees of the 700 MHz spectrum comprising the same TV channel and the adjacent channel within whose licensed geographic boundaries the digital LPTV or translator station is proposed to be located, and also notify licensees of co-channel and adjacent channel spectrum whose service boundaries lie within 75 miles and 50 miles, respectively, of their proposed station location. Specific information for this purpose can be obtained from the Commission's auction Web site at http://www.fcc.gov/auctions.

(e) UHF Channels 60-69 may be assigned to a digital low power television or television translator station for use as a digital conversion channel only. Stations proposing use of such channels shall notify all potentially affect 700 MHz commercial licensees not later than 30 days prior to the submission of their application (FCC Form 346) in the manner provided in paragraph of this section. Stations proposing use of channels 63, 64, 68 and 69 must secure a coordinated spectrum use agreement with the pertinent 700 MHz public safety regional planning committee and state administrator prior to the submission of their application (FCC Form 346). Coordination shall be undertaken with regional planning committee and state administrator of the region and state within which the digital LPTV or translator station is proposed to be located, and those of adjoining regions and states with boundaries within 75 miles of the proposed station location. Stations proposing use of channels 62, 65, and 67 must notify the pertinent regional planning committee and state administrator not later than 30 days prior to the submission of their application (FCC Form 346). Notification shall be made to the regional and state administrators of region and state within which the digital LPTV or translator station is proposed to be located, and those of adjoining regions and states with boundaries within 50 miles of the proposed station location. Information for this purpose is available at the above web site and also at the following internet sites: http://wireless.fcc.gov/publicsafety700MHzregional.html, http://wireless.fcc.gov/publicsafety/700MHz/state.html, and http://wireless.fcc.gov/publicsafety/700MHz/interop-contacts.html.

(f) Application for new analog low power television or television translator stations specifying operation above Channel 51 will not be accepted for filing. Applications for displacement relief on channels above 51 will continue to be accepted.

(g) After 11:59 pm local time on December 31, 2011, low power television and TV translator stations may no longer operate any analog (NTSC) or digital facilities above Channel 51.

