(a) Digital TV translator stations provide a means whereby the signals of DTV broadcast stations may be retransmitted to areas in which direct reception of such DTV stations is unsatisfactory due to distance or intervening terrain barriers.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, a digital TV translator station may be used only to receive the signals of a TV broadcast or DTV broadcast station, another digital TV translator station, a TV translator relay station, a television intercity relay station, a television STL station, or other suitable sources such as a CARS or common carrier microwave station, for the simultaneous retransmission of the programs and signals of a TV or DTV broadcast station. Such retransmissions may be accomplished by any of the following means:

(1) Reception of TV broadcast or DTV broadcast station programs and signals directly through space and conversion to a different channel by one of the following transmission modes:

(i) Heterodyne frequency conversion and suitable amplification, subject to a digital output power limit of 30 watts for transmitters operating on channels 14-69 and 3 watts for transmitters operating on channels 2-13; or

(ii) Digital signal regeneration (i.e., DTV signal demodulation, decoding, error processing, encoding, remodulation, and frequency upconversion) and suitable amplification; or,

(2) Demodulation, remodulation and amplification of TV broadcast or DTV broadcast station programs and signals received through a microwave transport.

(c) The transmissions of each digital TV translator station shall be intended for direct reception by the general public, and any other use shall be incidental thereto. A digital TV translator station shall not be operated solely for the purpose of relaying signals to one or more fixed receiving points for retransmission, distribution, or further relaying.

(d) Except as provided in (e) and (f) of this section, the technical characteristics of the retransmitted signals shall not be deliberately altered so as to hinder reception on consumer DTV broadcast receiving equipment.

(e) A digital TV translator station shall not retransmit the programs and signals of any TV broadcast or DTV broadcast station(s) without the prior written consent of such station(s). A digital TV translator may multiplex on its output channel the video program services of two or more TV broadcast and/or DTV broadcast stations, pursuant to arrangements with all affected stations, and for this limited purpose, is permitted to alter a TV broadcast and/or DTV broadcast signal.

(f) A digital TV translator station may transmit locally originated visual and/or aural messages limited to emergency warnings of imminent danger, to local public service announcements (PSAs) and to seeking or acknowledging financial support deemed necessary to the continued operation of the station. Acknowledgments of financial support may include identification of the contributors, the size and nature of the contribution and the advertising messages of the contributors. The originations concerning financial support and PSAs are limited to 30 seconds each, no more than once per hour. Emergency transmissions shall be no longer or more frequent than necessary to protect life and property. Such originations may be accomplished by any technical means agreed upon between the TV translator and DTV station whose signal is being retransmitted, but must be capable of being received on consumer DTV broadcast reception equipment. A digital TV translator shall modify, as necessary to avoid DTV reception tuning conflicts, the Program System and Information Protocol (PSIP) information in the DTV broadcast signal being retransmitted.
                                

(g) A digital LPTV station may operate under the following modes of service:

(1) For the retransmission of programming of a TV broadcast or DTV broadcast station, subject to the prior written consent of the station whose signal is being retransmitted;

(2) For the origination of programming and commercial matter as defined in ยง 74.701(l).

(3) Whenever operating, a digital LPTV station must transmit an over-the-air video program signal at no direct charge to viewers at least comparable in resolution to that of its associated analog (NTSC) LPTV station or, in the case of an on-channel digital conversion, that of its former analog LPTV station.

(4) A digital LPTV station may dynamically alter the bit stream of its signal to transmit one or more video program services in any established DTV video format.

(h) A digital LPTV station is not subject to minimum required hours of operation and may operate in either of the two modes described in paragraph (g) of this section for any number of hours.

(i) Upon transmitting a signal that meets the requirements of paragraph (g)(3) of this section, a digital LPTV station may offer services of any nature, consistent with the public interest, convenience, and necessity, on an ancillary or supplementary basis in accordance with the provisions of ยง 73.624(c) and (g) of this chapter.

(j) A digital LPTV station may not be operated solely for the purpose of relaying signals to one or more fixed receiving points for retransmission, distribution or relaying.

(k) A digital LPTV station may receive input signals for transmission or retransmission by any technical means, including those specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

