(a) Each low power TV and TV translator station not originating local programming as defined by § 74.701(h) operating over 0.001 kw peak visual power (0.002 kw when using circularly polarized antennas) must transmit its station identification as follows:

(1) By transmitting the call sign in International Morse Code at least once each hour. This transmission may be accomplished by means of an automatic device as required by § 74.750(c)(7). Call sign transmission shall be made at a code speed not in excess of 20 words per minute; or

(2) By arranging for the primary station, whose signal is being rebroadcast, to identify the translator station by transmitting an easily readable visual presentation or a clearly understandable aural presentation of the translator station's call letters and location. Two such identifications shall be made between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. each broadcast day at approximately one hour intervals during each time period. Television stations which do not begin their broadcast day before 9 a.m. shall make these identifications in the hours closest to these time periods at the specified intervals.

(b) Licensees of television translators whose station identification is made by the television station whose signals are being rebroadcast by the translator, must secure agreement with this television station licensee to keep in its file, and available to FCC personnel, the translator's call letters and location, giving the name, address and telephone number of the licensee or his service representative to be contacted in the event of malfunction of the translator. It shall be the responsibility of the translator licensee to furnish current information to the television station licensee for this purpose.

(c) A low power TV station shall comply with the station identification procedures given in § 73.1201 when locally originating programming, as defined by § 74.701(h). The identification procedures given in paragraphs (a) and (b) are to be used at all other times.

(d) Call signs for low power TV and TV translator stations will be made up of the initial letter K or W followed by the channel number assigned to the station and two additional letters. The use of the initial letter generally will follow the pattern used in the broadcast service, i.e., stations west of the Mississippi River will be assigned an initial letter K and those east, the letter W. The two letter combinations following the channel number will be assigned in order and requests for the assignment of the particular combinations of letters will not be considered. The channel number designator for Channels 2 through 9 will be incorporated in the call sign as a 2-digit number, i.e., 02, 03, . . . ., so as to avoid similarities with call signs assigned to amateur radio stations.

(e) Low power TV permittees or licensees may request that they be assigned four-letter call signs in lieu of the five-character alpha-numeric call signs described in paragraph (d) of this section. Parties requesting four-letter call signs are to follow the procedures delineated in § 73.3550 of this chapter. Such four-letter call signs shall begin with K or W; stations west of the Mississippi River will be assigned an initial letter K and stations east of the Mississippi River will be assigned an initial letter W. The four-letter call sign will be followed by the suffix “-LP.”

(f) TV broadcast booster station shall be identified by their primary stations by broadcasting of the primary station's call letters and location in accordance with the provisions of § 73.1201 of this chapter.

