(a) Television broadcast translator station. A station in the broadcast service operated for the purpose of retransmitting the programs and signals of a television broadcast station, without significantly altering any characteristic of the original signal other than its frequency and amplitude, for the purpose of providing television reception to the general public.

(b) Primary station. The analog television broadcast station (TV broadcast) or digital television station (DTV) which provides the programs and signals being retransmitted by a television broadcast translator station.

(c) VHF translator. A television broacast translator station operating on a VHF television broadcast channel.

(d) UHF translator. A television broadcast translator station operating on a UHF television broadcast channel.

(e) UHF translator signal booster. A station in the broadcasting service operated for the sole purpose of retransmitting the signals of the UHF translator station by amplifying and reradiating such signals which have been received directly through space, without significantly altering any characteristic of the incoming signal other than its amplitude.

(f) Low power TV station. A station authorized under the provisions of this subpart that may retransmit the programs and signals of a TV broadcast station and that may originate programming in any amount greater than 30 seconds per hour and/or operates a subscription service. (See § 73.641 of part 73 of this chapter.)

(g) Program origination. For purposes of this part, program origination shall be any transmissions other than the simultaneous retransmission of the programs and signals of a TV broadcast station. Origination shall include locally generated television program signals and program signals obtained via video recordings (tapes and discs), microwave, common carrier circuits, or other sources.

(h) Local origination. Program origination if the parameters of the program source signal, as it reaches the transmitter site, are under the control of the low power TV station licensee. Transmission of TV program signals generated at the transmitter site constitutes local origination. Local origination also includes transmission of programs reaching the transmitter site via TV STL stations, but does not include transmission of signals obtained from either terrestrial or satellite microwave feeds or low power TV stations.

(i) Television broadcast booster station. A station in the broadcast service operated by the licensee or permittee of a full service television broadcast station for the purpose of retransmitting the programs and signals of such primary station without significantly altering any characteristic of the original signal other than its amplitude. A television broadcast booster station may only be located such that its entire service area is located within the protected contour of the primary station it retransmits. For purposes of this paragraph, the service area of the booster and the protected contour of the primary station will be determined by the methods prescribed in § 74.705(c).

(j) Digital television broadcast translator station (“digital TV translator station”). A station operated for the purpose of retransmitting the programs and signals of a digital television (DTV) broadcast station, without significantly altering any characteristic of the original signal other than its frequency and amplitude, for the purpose of providing DTV reception to the general public.

(k) Digital low power TV station (“digital LPTV station”). A station authorized under the provisions of this subpart that may retransmit the programs and signals of a DTV broadcast station, may originate programming in any amount greater than 30 seconds per hour for the purpose of providing digital television (DTV) reception to the general public and, subject to a minimum video program service requirement, may offer services of an ancillary or supplementary nature, including subscription-based services. (See § 74.790).

(l) Digital program origination. For purposes of this part, digital program origination shall be any transmissions other than the simultaneous retransmission of the programs and signals of a TV or DTV broadcast station or transmissions related to service offerings of an ancillary or supplementary nature. Origination shall include locally generated television program signals and program signals obtained via video recordings (tapes and discs), microwave, common carrier circuits, or other sources.

(m) Existing low power television or television translator station. When used in subpart G of this part, the terms existing low power television and existing television translator station refer to an analog or digital low power television station or television translator station that is either licensed or has a valid construction permit.

(n) Suitable in core channel. When used in subpart G of this part, the term “suitable in core channel” refers to a channel that would enable a digital low power television or television translator station to produce a protected service area comparable to that of its associated analog LPTV or TV translator station.

(o) Companion digital channel. When used in subpart G of this part, the term “companion digital channel” refers to a digital channel authorized to an existing low power television or television translator station to be associated with the station's analog channel.

(p) Digital conversion channel. When used in subpart G of this part, the term “digital conversion channel” refers to a channel previously authorized to an existing low power television or television translator station that has been converted to digital operation.

