(a) An applicant for a new low power TV or TV translator station or for changes in the facilities of an authorized station shall endeavor to select a channel on which its operation is not likely to cause interference. The applications must be specific with regard to the channel requested. Only one channel will be assigned to each station.
                                

(1) Any one of the 12 standard VHF Channels (2 to 13 inclusive) may be assigned to a VHF low power TV or TV translator station. Channels 5 and 6 assigned in Alaska shall not cause harmful interference to and must accept interference from non-Government fixed operation authorized prior to January 1, 1982.

(2) Any one of the UHF Channels from 14 to 69, inclusive, may be assigned to a UHF low power TV or TV translator station. In accordance with § 73.603(c) of part 73, Channel 37 will not be assigned to such stations.

(3) Application for new low power TV or TV translator stations or for changes in existing stations, specifying operation above 806 MHz will not be accepted for filing. License renewals for existing TV translator stations operating on channels 70 (806-812 MHz) through 83 (884-890 MHz) will be granted only on a secondary basis to land mobile radio operations.

(b) Changes in the TV Table of Allotments or Digital Television Table of Allotments (§§ 73.606(b) and 73.622(a), respectively, of part 73 of this chapter), authorizations to construct new TV broadcast analog or DTV stations or to authorizations to change facilities of existing such stations, may be made without regard to existing or proposed low power TV or TV translator stations. Where such a change results in a low power TV or TV translator station causing actual interference to reception of the TV broadcast analog or DTV station, the licensee or permittee of the low power TV or TV translator station shall eliminate the interference or file an application for a change in channel assignment pursuant to § 73.3572 of this chapter.

(c) A television broadcast booster station will be authorized on the channel assigned to its primary station.

