Television broadcast auxiliary licensees and motion picture and television producers, as defined in ยง 74.801 may operate wireless video assist devices on a non-interference basis on VHF and UHF television channels to assist with production activities.

(a) The use of wireless video assist devices must comply with all provisions of this subpart, except as indicated in paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section.

(b) Wireless video assist devices may only be used for scheduled productions. They may not be used to produce live events and may not be used for electronic news gathering purposes.

(c) Wireless video assist devices may operate with a bandwidth not to exceed 6 MHz on frequencies in the bands 180-210 MHz (TV channels 8-12) and 470-698 MHz (TV channels 14-51) subject to the following restrictions:

(1) The bandwidth may only occupy a single TV channel.

(2) Operation is prohibited within the 608-614 MHz (TV channel 37) band.

(3) Operation is prohibited within 129 km of a television broadcasting station, including Class A television stations, low power television stations and translator stations.

(4) For the area and frequency combinations listed in the table below, operation is prohibited within the distances indicated from the listed geographic coordinates.

(d) Wireless video assist devices are limited to a maximum of 250 milliwatts ERP and must limit power to that necessary to reliably receive a signal at a distance of 300 meters. Wireless video assist devices must comply with the emission limitations of ยง 74.637.

(e) The antenna of a wireless video assist device must be attached to the transmitter either permanently, or by means of a unique connector designed to allow replacement of authorized antennas but prevent the use of unauthorized antennas. When transmitting, the antenna must not be more that 10 meters above ground level.

(f)(1) A license for a wireless video assist device will authorize the license holder to use all frequencies available for wireless video assist devices, subject to the limitations specified in this section.

(2) Licensees may operate as many wireless video assist devices as necessary, subject to the notification procedures of this section.

(g) Notification procedure. Prior to the commencement of transmitting, licensees must notify the local broadcasting coordinator of their intent to transmit. If there is no local coordinator in the intended area of operation, licensees must notify all adjacent channel TV stations within 161 km (100 mi) of the proposed operating area.

(1) Notification must be made at least 10 working days prior to the date of intended transmission.

(2) Notifications must include:

(i) Frequency or frequencies.

(ii) Location.

(iii) Antenna height.

(iv) Emission type(s).

(v) Effective radiated power.

(vi) Intended dates of operation.

(vii) Licensee contact information.

(3)(i) Failure of a local coordinator to respond to a notification request prior to the intended dates of operation indicated on the request will be considered as having the approval of the coordinator. In this case, licensees must in addition notify all co-channel and adjacent channel TV stations within 161 km (100 mi) of the proposed operating area. This notification is for information purposes only and will not enable TV stations to prevent a WAVD from operating, but is intended to help identify the source of interference if any is experienced after a WAVD begins operation.

(ii) If there is no local coordinator in the intended area of operation, failure of any adjacent channel TV station to respond to a notification request prior to the intended dates of operation indicated on the request will be considered as having the approval of the TV station.

(4) Licensees must operate in a manner consistent with the response of the local coordinator, or, if there is no local coordinator in the intended area of operation, the responses of the adjacent channel TV stations. Disagreements may be appealed to the Commission. However, in those instances, the licensee will bear the burden of proof and proceeding to overturn the recommendation of the local coordinator or the co-channel or adjacent channel TV station.

(h) Licenses for wireless video assist devices may not be transferred or assigned.

(i) The product literature that manufacturers include with a wireless assist video device must contain information regarding the requirement for users to obtain an FCC license, the requirement that stations must locate at least 129 kilometers away from a co-channel TV station, the limited class of users that may operate these devices, the authorized uses, the need for users to obtain a license, and the requirement that a local coordinator (or adjacent channel TV stations, if there is no local coordinator) must be notified prior to operation.

