(a) Frequencies within the following bands may be assigned for use by low power auxiliary stations:
              

(b) Operations in the bands allocated for TV broadcasting, listed below, are limited to locations removed from existing co-channel TV broadcast stations by not less than the following distances unless otherwise authorized by the FCC. (See ยง 73.609 for zone definitions.)

(1) 54.000-72.000 MHz and 76.000-88.000 MHz:
              

(2) 174.000-216.000 MHz
              

(3) 470.000-608.000 MHz and 614.000-698.000 MHz.
              

(c) Specific frequency operation is required when operating within the bands allocated for TV broadcasting.

(1) The frequency selection shall be offset from the upper or lower band limits by 25 kHz or an integral multiple thereof.

(2) One or more adjacent 25 kHz segments within the assignable frequencies may be combined to form a channel whose maximum bandwidth shall not exceed 200 kHz.

(d) Low power auxiliary licensees will not be granted exclusive frequency assignments.

(e) Clearing mechanisms for the 700 MHz Band. This section sets forth provisions relating to the transition of low power auxiliary stations operating at 698-806 MHz (700 MHz band).

(1) Any low power auxiliary station that operates at frequencies in the 700 MHz band while transitioning its operations out of that band must not cause harmful interference and must accept interference from any commercial or public safety wireless licensees in the 700 MHz band.

(2) Any low power auxiliary station that operates at frequencies in the 700 MHz band will have until no later than June 12, 2010 to transition its operations completely out of the 700 MHz band, subject to the following. During this transition period, any commercial or public safety licensee in the 700 MHz band may choose one or both of the following voluntary methods to notify low power auxiliary stations:

(i) Any commercial or public safety licensee in the 700 MHz band may notify the Commission that it has initiated or will be initiating operations on specified frequencies in a particular market(s) in the 700 MHz band. The wireless operations initiated by the commercial or public safety 700 MHz licensees may include system testing or trials. Following receipt of the notification, the Commission will issue a public notice providing that operators of low power auxiliary stations, including wireless microphones, in the 700 MHz band in those market(s) will be required to cease operations within 60 days after the Commission's notice is released.

(ii) Any commercial or public safety licensee in the 700 MHz band may notify any low power auxiliary station users operating in the 700 MHz band that it has initiated or will be initiating operations on specified frequencies in the market in which the low power auxiliary station is operating. The wireless operations initiated by the commercial or public safety 700 MHz licensees may include system testing or trials. Upon receipt of such notice, the low power auxiliary station in the affected market area must cease operation within 60 days.

(iii) In the event that both of these notice provisions in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are used with respect to a particular low power auxiliary station, the low power auxiliary station will have to cease operations in the market(s) in accordance with whichever notice provides for earlier termination of its operations.

(3) Notwithstanding this 60 day notice requirement, any low power auxiliary station that causes harmful interference to any commercial or public safety 700 MHz licensee must cease operations immediately, consistent with the rules for secondary use.

