(a) Applications for new low power auxiliary stations will not be accepted unless the transmitting equipment specified therein has been certificated for use pursuant to provisions of this subpart.

(b) Any manufacturer of a transmitter to be used in this service may apply for certification for such transmitter following the certification procedure set forth in part 2 of the Commission's Rules and Regulations. Attention is also directed to part 1 of the Commission's Rules and Regulations which specifies the fees required when filing an application for certification.

(c) An applicant for a low power auxiliary station may also apply for certification for an individual transmitter by following the certification procedure set forth in part 2 of the Commission's Rules and Regulations. The application for certification must be accompanied by the proper fees as prescribed in part 1 of the Commission's Rules and Regulations.

(d) Low power auxiliary station equipment authorized to be used pursuant to an application accepted for filing prior to December 1, 1977 may continue to be used by the licensee or its successors or assignees: Provided, however, If operation of such equipment causes harmful interference due to its failure to comply with the technical standards set forth in this subpart, the Commission may, at its discretion, require the licensee to take such corrective action as is necessary to eliminate the interference.

(e) Each instrument of authority which permits operation of a low power auxiliary station using equipment which has not been certificated will specify the particular transmitting equipment which the licensee is authorized to use.

(f) All transmitters marketed for use under this subpart shall be certificated by the Federal Communications Commission for this purpose. (Refer to subpart I of part 2 of the Commission's rules and regulations.)

(g) No person shall manufacture, import, sell, lease, offer for sale or lease, or ship low power auxiliary stations that are capable of operating in the 700 MHz band (698-806 MHz). This prohibition does not apply to devices manufactured solely for export.

(h) Any person who manufactures, sells, leases, or offers for sale or lease low power auxiliary stations, including wireless microphones, that are destined for non-U.S. markets and that are capable of operating in the 700 MHz band shall include labeling and make clear in all sales, marketing, and packaging materials, including online materials, relating to such devices that the devices cannot be operated in the U.S.

(i) Any person, whether such person is a wholesaler or a retailer, who manufactures, sells, leases, or offers for sale or lease low power auxiliary stations that operate in the core TV bands (channels 2-51, excluding channel 37) is subject to the disclosure requirements in ยง 15.216 of this chapter.

