(a) Sections 76.92 through 76.97 shall apply to open video systems in accordance with the provisions contained in this section.

(b) Any provision of § 76.92 that refers to a “cable community unit” or “community unit” shall apply to an open video system or that portion of an open video system that operates or will operate within a separate and distinct community or municipal entity (including unincorporated communities within unincorporated areas and including single, discrete unincorporated areas). Any provision of § 76.92 that refers to a “cable television community” shall apply to an open video system community. Any provision of § 76.92 that refers to a “cable television system's mandatory signal carriage obligations” shall apply to an open video system's mandatory signal carriage obligations.

(c) Any provision of § 76.94 that refers to a “cable system operator” or “cable television system operator” shall apply to an open video system operator. Any provision of § 76.94 that refers to a “cable system” or “cable television system” shall apply to an open video system except § 76.94 (e) and (f) which shall apply to an open video system operator. Open video system operators shall make all notifications and information regarding the exercise of network non-duplication rights immediately available to all appropriate video programming provider on the system. An open video system operator shall not be subject to sanctions for any violation of these rules by an unaffiliated program supplier if the operator provided proper notices to the program supplier and subsequently took prompt steps to stop the distribution of the infringing program once it was notified of a violation.

(d) Any provision of § 76.95 that refers to a “cable system” or a “cable community unit” shall apply to an open video system or that portion of an open video system that operates or will operate within a separate and distinct community or municipal entity (including unincorporated communities within unincorporated areas and including single, discrete unincorporated areas).

