As used in this subpart:

(a) Affiliated. For purposes of this subpart, entities are affiliated if either entity has an attributable interest in the other or if a third party has an attributable interest in both entities.

(b) Attributable interest. The term “attributable interest” shall be defined by reference to the criteria set forth in Notes 1 through 5 to § 76.501 provided, however, that:

(1) The limited partner and LLC/LLP/RLLP insulation provisions of Note 2(f) shall not apply; and

(2) The provisions of Note 2(a) regarding five (5) percent interests shall include all voting or nonvoting stock or limited partnership equity interests of five (5) percent or more.

(c) Buying groups. The term “buying group” or “agent,” for purposes of the definition of a multichannel video programming distributor set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, means an entity representing the interests of more than one entity distributing multichannel video programming that:

(1) Agrees to be financially liable for any fees due pursuant to a satellite cable programming, or satellite broadcast programming, contract which it signs as a contracting party as a representative of its members or whose members, as contracting parties, agree to joint and several liability; and

(2) Agrees to uniform billing and standardized contract provisions for individual members; and

(3) Agrees either collectively or individually on reasonable technical quality standards for the individual members of the group.

(d) Multichannel video programming distributor. The term “multichannel video programming distributor” means an entity engaged in the business of making available for purchase, by subscribers or customers, multiple channels of video programming. Such entities include, but are not limited to, a cable operator, a BRS/EBS provider, a direct broadcast satellite service, a television receive-only satellite program distributor, and a satellite master antenna television system operator, as well as buying groups or agents of all such entities.

(e) Video programming vendor. The term “video programming vendor” means a person engaged in the production, creation, or wholesale distribution of video programming for sale.

