(a) Recordkeeping requirements. The operator of every cable television system having fewer than 1,000 subscribers is exempt from the public inspection requirements contained in § 76.1701 (political file); § 76.1715 (sponsorship identification); § 76.1702 (EEO records available for public inspection); § 76.1703 (commercial records for children's programming); § 76.1704 (proof-of-performance test data); and § 76.1706 (signal leakage logs and repair records). The operator of every cable television system having 1000 or more subscribers but fewer than 5000 subscribers shall, upon request, provide the information required by § 76.1715 (sponsorship identification); § 76.1702 (EEO records available for public inspection); § 76.1703 (commercial records for children's programming); § 76.1704 (proof-of-performance test data); and § 76.1706 (signal leakage logs and repair records) but shall maintain for public inspection a file containing a copy of all records required to be kept by § 76.1701 (political file). The operator of every cable television system having 5000 or more subscribers shall maintain for public inspection a file containing a copy of all records which are required to be kept by § 76.1701 (political file); § 76.1715 (sponsorship identification); § 76.1702 (EEO records available for public inspection); § 76.1703 (commercial records for children's programming); § 76.1704 (proof-of-performance test data); and § 76.1706 (signal leakage logs and repair records).

(1)-(2) [Reserved]

(b) Location of records. The public inspection file shall be maintained at the office which the system operator maintains for the ordinary collection of subscriber charges, resolution of subscriber complaints, and other business or at any accessible place in the community served by the system unit(s) (such as a public registry for documents or an attorney's office). The public inspection file shall be available for public inspection at any time during regular business hours.

(c) All or part of the public inspection file may be maintained in a computer database, as long as a computer terminal is made available, at the location of the file, to members of the public who wish to review the file.

(d) The records specified in paragraph (a) of this section shall be retained for the period specified in §§ 76.1701, 76.1702, 76.1704(a), and 76.1706, respectively.

(e) Reproduction of records. Copies of any material in the public inspection file shall be available for machine reproduction upon request made in person, provided the requesting party shall pay the reasonable cost of reproduction. Requests for machine copies shall be fulfilled at a location specified by the system operator, within a reasonable period of time, which in no event shall be longer than seven days. The system operator is not required to honor requests made by mail but may do so if it chooses.

