As used in this subpart:

(a) Area served by cable system. The term “area served” by a cable system means an area actually passed by a cable system and which can be connected for a standard connection fee.

(b) Cognizable interests. In applying the provisions of this subpart, ownership and other interests in cable operators, satellite cable programming vendors, satellite broadcast programming vendors, or terrestrial cable programming vendors will be attributed to their holders and may subject the interest holders to the rules of this subpart. Cognizable and attributable interests shall be defined by reference to the criteria set forth in Notes 1 through 5 to § 76.501 provided, however, that:

(1) The limited partner and LLC/LLP/RLLP insulation provisions of Note 2(f) shall not apply; and

(2) The provisions of Note 2(a) regarding five (5) percent interests shall include all voting or nonvoting stock or limited partnership equity interests of five (5) percent or more.

(c) Buying groups. The term “buying group” or “agent,” for purposes of the definition of a multichannel video programming distributor set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, means an entity representing the interests of more than one entity distributing multichannel video programming that:

(1) Agrees to be financially liable for any fees due pursuant to a satellite cable programming, satellite broadcast programming, or terrestrial cable programming contract which it signs as a contracting party as a representative of its members or whose members, as contracting parties, agree to joint and several liability; and

(2) Agrees to uniform billing and standardized contract provisions for individual members; and

(3) Agrees either collectively or individually on reasonable technical quality standards for the individual members of the group.

(d) Competing distributors. The term “competing,” as used with respect to competing multichannel video programming distributors, means distributors whose actual or proposed service areas overlap.

(e) Multichannel video programming distributor. The term “multichannel video programming distributor” means an entity engaged in the business of making available for purchase, by subscribers or customers, multiple channels of video programming. Such entities include, but are not limited to, a cable operator, a BRS/EBS provider, a direct broadcast satellite service, a television receive-only satellite program distributor, and a satellite master antenna television system operator, as well as buying groups or agents of all such entities.
                                    

(f) Satellite broadcast programming. The term “satellite broadcast programming” means broadcast video programming when such programming is retransmitted by satellite and the entity retransmitting such programming is not the broadcaster or an entity performing such retransmission on behalf of and with the specific consent of the broadcaster.

(g) Satellite broadcast programming vendor. The term “satellite broadcast programming vendor” means a fixed service satellite carrier that provides service pursuant to section 119 of title 17, United States Code, with respect to satellite broadcast programming.

(h) Satellite cable programming. The term “satellite cable programming” means video programming which is transmitted via satellite and which is primarily intended for direct receipt by cable operators for their retransmission to cable subscribers, except that such term does not include satellite broadcast programming.
                                    

(i) Satellite cable programming vendor. The term “satellite cable programming vendor” means a person engaged in the production, creation, or wholesale distribution for sale of satellite cable programming, but does not include a satellite broadcast programming vendor.

(j) Similarly situated. The term “similarly situated” means, for the purposes of evaluating alternative programming contracts offered by a defendant programming vendor or by a terrestrial cable programming vendor alleged to have engaged in conduct described in § 76.1001(b)(1)(ii), that an alternative multichannel video programming distributor has been identified by the defendant as being more properly compared to the complainant in order to determine whether a violation of § 76.1001(a) or § 76.1002(b) has occurred. The analysis of whether an alternative multichannel video programming distributor is properly comparable to the complainant includes consideration of, but is not limited to, such factors as whether the alternative multichannel video programming distributor operates within a geographic region proximate to the complainant, has roughly the same number of subscribers as the complainant, and purchases a similar service as the complainant. Such alternative multichannel video programming distributor, however, must use the same distribution technology as the “competing” distributor with whom the complainant seeks to compare itself.

(k) Subdistribution agreement. The term “subdistribution agreement” means an arrangement by which a local cable operator is given the right by a satellite cable programming vendor or satellite broadcast programming vendor to distribute the vendor's programming to competing multichannel video programming distributors.

(l) Terrestrial cable programming. The term “terrestrial cable programming” means video programming which is transmitted terrestrially or by any means other than satellite and which is primarily intended for direct receipt by cable operators for their retransmission to cable subscribers, except that such term does not include satellite broadcast programming or satellite cable programming.
                                    

(m) Terrestrial cable programming vendor. The term “terrestrial cable programming vendor” means a person engaged in the production, creation, or wholesale distribution for sale of terrestrial cable programming, but does not include a satellite broadcast programming vendor or a satellite cable programming vendor.

