(a) An open video system operator shall be subject to public, educational and governmental access requirements for every cable franchise area with which its system overlaps.

(b) An open video system operator must ensure that all subscribers receive any public, educational and governmental access channels within the subscribers' franchise area.

(c) An open video system operator may negotiate with the local cable franchising authority of the jurisdiction(s) which the open video system serves to establish the open video system operator's obligations with respect to public, educational and governmental access channel capacity, services, facilities and equipment. These negotiations may include the local cable operator if the local franchising authority, the open video system operator and the cable operator so desire.

(d) If an open video system operator and a local franchising authority are unable to reach an agreement regarding the open video system operator's obligations with respect to public, educational and governmental access channel capacity, services, facilities and equipment within the local franchising authority's jurisdiction:

(1) The open video system operator must satisfy the same public, educational and governmental access obligations as the local cable operator by providing the same amount of channel capacity for public, educational and governmental access and by matching the local cable operator's annual financial contributions towards public, educational and governmental access services, facilities and equipment that are actually used for public, educational and governmental access services, facilities and equipment. For in-kind contributions (e.g., cameras, production studios), the open video system operator may satisfy its statutory obligation by negotiating mutually agreeable terms with the local cable operator, so that public, educational and governmental access services to the community is improved or increased. If such terms cannot be agreed upon, the open video system operator must pay the local franchising authority the monetary equivalent of the local cable operator's depreciated in-kind contribution, or, in the case of facilities, the annual amortization value. Any matching contributions provided by the open video system operator must be used to fund activities arising under Section 611 of the Communications Act.

(2) The local franchising authority shall impose the same rules and procedures on an open video system operator as it imposes on the local cable operator with regard to the open video system operator's use of channel capacity designated for public, educational and governmental access use when such capacity is not being used for such purposes.

(3) The local cable operator is required to permit the open video system operator to connect with its public, educational and governmental access channel feeds. The open video system operator and the cable operator may decide how to accomplish this connection, taking into consideration the exact physical and technical circumstances of the cable and open video systems involved. If the cable and open video system operator cannot agree on how to accomplish the connection, the local franchising authority may decide. The local franchising authority may require that the connection occur on government property or on public rights of way.

(4) The costs of connection to the cable operator's public, educational and governmental access channel feed shall be borne by the open video system operator. Such costs shall be counted towards the open video system operator's matching financial contributions set forth in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(5) The local franchising authority may not impose public, educational and governmental access obligations on the open video system operator that would exceed those imposed on the local cable operator.

(6) Where there is no existing local cable operator, the open video system operator must make a reasonable amount of channel capacity available for public, educational and governmental use, as well as provide reasonable support for services, facilities and equipment relating to such public, educational and governmental use. If a franchise agreement previously existed in that franchise area, the local franchising authority may elect either to impose the previously existing public, educational and governmental access obligations or determine the open video system operator's public, educational and governmental access obligations by comparison to the franchise agreement for the nearest operating cable system that has a commitment to provide public, educational and governmental access and that serves a franchise area with a similar population size. The local franchising authority shall be permitted to make a similar election every 15 years thereafter. Absent a previous franchise agreement, the open video system operator shall be required to provide channel capacity, services, facilities and equipment relating to public, educational and governmental access equivalent to that prescribed in the franchise agreement(s) for the nearest operating cable system with a commitment to provide public, educational and governmental access and that serves a franchise area with a similar population size.
              

(7) The open video system operator must adjust its system(s) to comply with new public, educational and governmental access obligations imposed by a cable franchise renewal; provided, however, that an open video system operator will not be required to displace other programmers using its open video system to accommodate public, educational and governmental access channels. The open video system operator shall comply with such public, educational and governmental access obligations whenever additional capacity is or becomes available, whether it is due to increased channel capacity or decreased demand for channel capacity.

(8) The open video system operator and/or the local franchising authority may file a complaint with the Commission, pursuant to our dispute resolution procedures set forth in § 76.1514, if the open video system operator and the local franchising authority cannot agree as to the application of the Commission's rules regarding the open video system operator's public, educational and governmental access obligations under paragraph (d) of this section.

(e) If an open video system operator maintains an institutional network, as defined in Section 611(f) of the Communications Act, the local franchising authority may require that educational and governmental access channels be designated on that institutional network to the extent such channels are designated on the institutional network of the local cable operator.

(f) An open video system operator shall not exercise any editorial control over any public, educational, or governmental use of channel capacity provided pursuant to this subsection, provided, however, that any open video system operator may prohibit the use on its system of any channel capacity of any public, educational, or governmental facility for any programming which contains nudity, obscene material, indecent material as defined in § 76.701(g), or material soliciting or promoting unlawful conduct. For purposes of this section, “material soliciting or promoting unlawful conduct” shall mean material that is otherwise proscribed by law. An open video system operator may require any access user, or access manager or administrator agreeing to assume the responsibility of certifying, to certify that its programming does not contain any of the materials described above and that reasonable efforts will be used to ensure that live programming does not contain such material.

