(a) An operator of an open video system must certify to the Commission that it will comply with the Commission's regulations in 47 CFR 76.1503, 76.1504, 76.1506(m), 76.1508, 76.1509, and 76.1513. The Commission must approve such certification prior to the commencement of service at such a point in time that would allow the applicant sufficient time to comply with the Commission's notification requirements.
                                    

(b) Certifications must be verified by an officer or director of the applicant, stating that, to the best of his or her information and belief, the representations made therein are accurate.

(c) Certifications must be filed on FCC Form 1275 and must include:

(1) The applicant's name, address and telephone number;

(2) A statement of ownership, including all affiliated entities;

(3) If the applicant is a cable operator applying for certification in its cable franchise area, a statement that the applicant is qualified to operate an open video system under Section 76.1501.

(4) A statement that the applicant agrees to comply and to remain in compliance with each of the Commission's regulations in §§ 76.1503, 76.1504, 76.1506(m), 76.1508, 76.1509, and 76.1513;

(5) If the applicant is required under 47 CFR 64.903(a) of this chapter to file a cost allocation manual, a statement that the applicant will file changes to its manual at least 60 days before the commencement of service;

(6) A list of the names of the anticipated local communities to be served upon completion of the system;

(7) The anticipated amount and type (i.e., analog or digital) of capacity (for switched digital systems, the anticipated number of available channel input ports); and

(8) A statement that the applicant will comply with the Commission's notice and enrollment requirements for unaffiliated video programming providers.

(d)(1) On or before the date an FCC Form 1275 is filed with the Commission, the applicant must serve a copy of its filing on all local communities identified pursuant to paragraph (c)(6) of this section and must include a statement informing the local communities of the Commission's requirements in paragraph (e) of this section for filing oppositions and comments. Service by mail is complete upon mailing, but if mailed, the served documents must be postmarked at least 3 days prior to the filing of the FCC Form 1275 with the Commission.

(2) Parties are required to attach a cover sheet to the filing indicating that the submission is an open video system certification application. The only wording on this cover sheet shall be “Open Video System Certification Application” and “Attention: Media Bureau.” This wording shall be located in the center of the page and should be in letters at least 1/2 inch in size. Parties shall also include the words “open video systems” on their mailing envelope.

(e)(1) Comments or oppositions to a certification must be filed within five calendar days of the Commission's receipt of the certification and must be served on the party that filed the certification. If, after making the necessary calculations, the due date for filing comments falls on a holiday, comments shall be filed on the next business day before noon, unless the nearest business day precedes the fifth calendar day following a filing, in which case the comments will be due on the preceding business day. For example, if the fifth day falls on a Saturday, then the filing would be due on that preceding Friday. However, if the fifth day falls on Sunday, then the filing will be due on the next day, Monday, before noon (or Tuesday, before noon if the Monday is a holiday).

(2) Parties wishing to respond to a FCC Form 1275 filing must submit comments or oppositions with the Office of the Secretary and the Bureau Chief, Media Bureau. Comments will not be considered properly filed unless filed with both of these Offices. Parties are required to attach a cover sheet to the filing indicating that the submission is a pleading related to an open video system application, the only wording on this cover sheet shall be “Open Video System Certification Application Comments.” This wording shall be located in the center of the page and should be in letters at least 1/2 inch in size. Parties shall also include the words “open video systems” on their mailing envelopes.

(f) If the Commission does not disapprove the certification application within ten days after receipt of an applicant's request, the certification application will be deemed approved. If disapproved, the applicant may file a revised certification or refile its original submission with a statement addressing the issues in dispute. Such refilings must be served on any objecting party or parties and on all local communities in which the applicant intends to operate. The Commission will consider any revised or refiled FCC Form 1275 to be a new proceeding and any party who filed comments regarding the original FCC Form 1275 will have to refile their original comments if they think such comments should be considered in the subsequent proceeding.

