(a) In circumstances requiring the temporary use of community units for operations not authorized by the Commission's rules, a cable television system may request special temporary authority to operate. The Commission may grant special temporary authority, upon a finding that the public interest would be served thereby, for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days, and may extend such authority, upon a like finding, for one additional period, not to exceed ninety (90) days.

(b) Requests for special temporary authority may be submitted informally, by letter, and shall contain the following:

(1) Name and address of the applicant cable system.

(2) Community in which the community unit is located.

(3) Type of operation to be conducted.

(4) Date of commencement of proposed operations.

(5) Duration of time for which temporary authority is required.

(6) All pertinent facts and considerations relied on to demonstrate the need for special temporary authority and to support a determination that a grant of such authority would serve the public interest.

(7) A certificate of service on all interested parties.

(c) A request for special temporary authority shall be filed at least ten (10) days prior to the date of commencement of the proposed operations, or shall be accompanied by a statement of reasons for the delay in submitting such request.

(d) A grant of special temporary authority may be rescinded by the Commission at any time upon a finding of facts which warrant such action.

