(a) Upon a finding that a rate for cable programming service or associated equipment is unreasonable, the Commission may order the cable operator to refund to subscribers that portion of previously paid rates which is deemed unreasonable.

(b) The cumulative refund due subscribers shall be calculated from the date of the first complaint filed with the franchising authority until the date a cable operator implements a prospective rate reduction as ordered by the Commission pursuant to ยง 76.960. The Commission shall calculate refund liability according to the rules in effect for determining the reasonableness of the rates for the period of time covered by the complaint.

(c) The cable operator, in its discretion, may implement a refund in the following manner:

(1) By returning overcharges to those subscribers who actually paid the overcharges, either through direct payment or as a specifically identified, one-time credit to those subscribers' bills; or

(2) By means of a prospective percentage reduction in the unreasonable cable programming service rate or equipment charge to cover the cumulative overcharge. This shall be reflected as a specifically identified, one-time credit on prospective bills to the class of subscribers that currently subscribe to the cable programming service or associated equipment at issue.

(d) Refunds shall include interest computed at applicable rates published by the Internal Revenue Service for tax refunds and additional tax payments. Interest shall accrue from the date a valid complaint is filed until the refund issues.

(e) At the time the Commission orders a cable operator to pay refunds to subscribers, the franchising authority must return to the cable operator an amount equal to that portion of the franchise fee that was paid on the total amount of the refund to subscribers. The franchising authority may return the franchise fee overcharge either in an immediate lump sum payment, or the cable operator may deduct it from the cable system's future franchise fee payments.

