(a) Upon assumption of rate regulation authority, the Commission will notify the cable operator and require the cable operator to file its basic rate schedule with the Commission within 30 days, with a copy to the local franchising authority.

(b) Basic service and equipment rate schedule filings for existing rates or proposed rate increases (including increases in the baseline channel change that results from reductions in the number of channels in a tier) must use the official FCC form, a copy thereof, or a copy generated by FCC software. Failure to file on the official FCC form or a copy may result in the imposition of sanctions specified in § 76.937(d). Cable operators seeking to justify the reasonableness of existing or proposed rates above the permitted tier rate must submit a cost-of-service showing sufficient to support a finding that the rates are reasonable.

(c) Filings proposing annual adjustments or rates within the rates regulation standards in §§ 76.922 and 76.923, must be made 30 days prior to the proposed effective date and can become effective on the proposed effective date unless the Commission issues an order deferring the effective date or denying the rate proposal. Petitions opposing such filings must be filed within 15 days of public notice of the filing by the cable operator and be accompanied by a certificate that service was made on the cable operator and the local franchising authority. The cable operator may file an opposition within five days of filing of the petition, certifying to service on both the petitioner and the local franchising authority.

(d) Filings proposing a rate not within the rate regulation standards of §§ 76.922 and 76.923, must be made 90 days before the requested effective date. Petitions opposing such filings must be filed within 30 days of public notice of the filing, and be accompanied by a certificate that service was made on the cable operator and the local franchising authority. The cable operator may file an opposition within 10 days of the filing of the petition, and certifying that service was made on the petitioner and the local franchising authority.

