(a) A cable operator (or other interested party) may challenge a franchising authority's certification by filing a petition for reconsideration pursuant to ยง 1.106. The petition may allege either of the following:

(1) The cable operator is not subject to rate regulation because effective competition exists as defined in ยง 76.905. Sections 76.907(b) and (c) apply to petitions filed under this section.

(2) The franchising authority does not meet the certification standards set forth in 47 U.S.C. 543(a)(3).

(b) Stay of rate regulation. (1) The filing of a petition for reconsideration pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section will automatically stay the imposition of rate regulation pending the outcome of the reconsideration proceeding.

(2) A petitioner filing pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section may request a stay of rate regulation.

(3) In any case in which a stay of rate regulation has been granted, if the petition for reconsideration is denied, the cable operator may be required to refund any rates or portion of rates above the permitted tier charge or permitted equipment charge which were collected from the date the operator implements a prospective rate reduction back in time to September 1, 1993, or one year, whichever is shorter.

(c) The filing of a petition for reconsideration alleging the presence of effective competition based on frivolous grounds is prohibited, and may be subject to forfeitures.

(d) If the Commission upholds a challenge to a certification filed pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the Commission will notify the franchising authority of the revisions necessary to secure approval and provide the authority an opportunity to amend its certification however necessary to secure approval. Provided, however, That pending approval of certification, the Commission will assume jurisdiction over basic cable service rates in that franchise area.

