(a) A CARS station may be operated unattended: Provided, That such operation is conducted in accordance with the conditions listed below: And provided further, That the Commission, in Washington, DC, is notified at least 10 days prior to the beginning of unattended operation if such operation is not indicated on the station authorization.

(1) The transmitter and associated control circuits shall be installed and protected in a manner designed to prevent tampering or operation by unauthorized persons.

(2) If the transmitting apparatus is located at a site which is not readily accessible at all hours and in all seasons, means shall be provided for turning the transmitter on and off at will from a location which can be reached promptly at all hours and in all seasons.

(3) Personnel responsible for the maintenance of the station shall be available on call at a location which will assure expeditious performance of such technical servicing and maintenance as may be necessary whenever the station is operating. In lieu thereof, arrangements may be made to have a person or persons available at all times when the transmitter is operating, to turn the transmitter off in the event that it is operating improperly. The transmitter may not be restored to operation until the malfunction has been corrected by a technically qualified person.

(4) The station licensee shall be responsible for the proper operation of the station at all times and is expected to provide for observations, servicing and maintenance as often as may be necessary to ensure proper operation. All adjustments or tests during or coincident with the installation, servicing, or maintenance of the station which may affect its operation shall be performed by or under the immediate supervision of a technically qualified person.

(b) The Commission may notify the licensee not to commence unattended operation, or to cancel, suspend, or change the date of the beginning of such operation as and when such action may appear to be in the public interest, convenience, or necessity.

