(a) A CARS station may be operated by remote control: Provided, That such operation is conducted in accordance with the conditions listed below: And provided further, That the Commission, in Washington, DC, is notified at least 10 days prior to the beginning of such operation and that such notification is accompanied by a detailed description showing the manner of compliance with the following conditions:

(1) The transmitter and associated control system shall be installed and protected in a manner designed to prevent tampering or operation by unauthorized persons.

(2) An operator shall be on duty at the remote control position and in actual charge thereof at all times when the station is in operation.

(3) Facilities shall be provided at the control position which will permit the operator to turn the transmitter on and off at will. The control position shall also be equipped with suitable devices for observing the overall characteristics of the transmissions and a carrier operated device which will give a continuous visual indication whenever the transmitting antenna is radiating a signal. The transmitting apparatus shall be inspected as often as may be necessary to insure proper operation.

(4) The control circuits shall be so designed and installed that short circuits, open circuits, other line faults, or any other cause which would result in loss of control of the transmitter will automatically cause the transmitter to cease radiating.

(b) An application for authority to construct a new station or to make changes in the facilities of an existing station and which proposes operation by remote control shall include an adequate showing of the manner of compliance with the requirements of this section.

(c) The Commission may notify the licensee not to commence remote control operation, or to cancel, suspend, or change the date of the beginning of such operation as and when such action may appear to be in the public interest, convenience, or necessity.

