For purposes of this part, the following definitions are applicable. For other definitions, see part 76 (Cable Television Service) of this chapter.

(a) Cable television relay service (CARS) station. A fixed or mobile station used for the transmission of television and related audio signals, signals of standard and FM broadcast stations, signals of instructional television fixed stations, and cablecasting from the point of reception to a terminal point from the point of reception to a terminal point from which the signals are distributed to the public.
              

(b) Local distribution service (LDS) station. A fixed CARS station used within a cable television system or systems for the transmission of television signals and related audio signals, signals of standard and FM broadcast stations, signals of instructional television fixed stations, and cablecasting from a local transmission point to one or more receiving points, from which the communications are distributed to the public. LDS stations may also engage in repeatered operation.

(c) Cable Television Relay Service Studio to Headend Link (SHL) station. A fixed CARS station used for the transmission of television program material and related communications from a cable television studio to the headend of a cable television system.

(d) Cable Television Relay Service PICKUP station. A land mobile CARS station used for the transmission of television signals and related communications from the scenes of events occurring at points removed from cable television studios to cable television studios or headends.

(e) Remote control operation. Operation of a station by a qualified operator on duty at a control position from which the transmitter is not visible but which control position is equipped with suitable control and telemetering circuits so that the essential functions that could be performed at the transmitter can also be performed from the control point.

(f) Attended operation. Operation of a station by a qualified operator on duty at the place where the transmitting apparatus is located with the transmitter in plain view of the operator.

(g) Unattended operation. Operation of a station by automatic means whereby the transmitter is turned on and off and performs its functions without attention by a qualified operator.

(h) Authorized bandwidth. The maximum bandwidth authorized to be used by a station as specified in the station license. (See §§ 2.202 and 78.104.)

(i) Cable network-entity. A cable network-entity is an organization which produces programs available for simultaneous transmission by cable systems serving a combined total of at least 5,000,000 subscribers and having distribution facilities or circuits available to such affiliated stations or cable systems.

(j) Other eligible system. A system comprised of microwave radio channels in the BRS/EBS spectrum (as defined in subpart M of part 27 of this chapter) that delivers multichannel television service over the air to subscribers.

