(a) Except in cases where a CARS station is operated unattended in accordance with ยง 78.53 or except as provided in other paragraphs of this section, a person shall be on duty at the place where the transmitting apparatus is located, in plain view and in actual charge of its operation or at a remote control point established pursuant to the provision of ยง 78.51, at all times when the station is in operation. Control and monitoring equipment at a remote control point shall be readily accessible and clearly visible to the operator at that position.

(b) Any transmitter tests, adjustments, or repairs during or coincident with the installation, servicing, operation or maintenance of a CARS station which may affect the proper operation of such station shall be made by or under the immediate supervision and responsibility of a person responsible for proper functioning of the station equipment.

(c) The operator on duty and in charge of a CARS station may, at the discretion of the licensee, be employed for other duties or for the operation of another station or stations in accordance with the rules governing such stations. However, such duties shall in no way impair or impede the required supervision of the CARS station.

(d) CARS stations operating with nominal transmitter power of 250 milliwatts or less may be operated by any person whom the licensee shall designate. Pursuant to this provision, the designated person shall perform as the licensee's agent and proper operation of the station shall remain the licensee's responsibility.

(e) Mobile CARS stations operating with nominal transmitter power in excess of 250 milliwatts may be operated by any person whom the licensee shall designate: Provided that a person is on duty at a receiving end of the circuit to supervise operation and to immediately institute measures sufficient to assure prompt correction of any condition of improper operation that may be observed.

