Radioprinter operations provide record communications between authorized maritime mobile stations.

(a) Supplementary eligibility requirements. Ships must be less than 1600 gross tons.

(b) Scope of communication. (1) Ship radioprinter communications may be conducted with an associated private coast station.

(2) Ships authorized to communicate by radioprinter with a common private coast station may also conduct intership radioprinter operations.

(3) Only those communications which are associated with the business and operational needs of the ship are authorized.

(c) Assignment and use of frequencies. (1) Frequencies for radioprinter operations are shared by several radio services including the maritime mobile service.

(2) Ship stations must conduct radioprinter operations only on frequencies assigned to their associated private coast station for that purpose.

(d) Authorization procedure. The authorization procedure for ship station radioprinter operations is as follows:

(1) The associated private coast station must submit an application for specific radioprinter frequencies and provide the names of ships to be served.

(2) When the private coast station receives a radioprinter license, it must provide copies of their license to all ships with which they are authorized to conduct radioprinter operations. The private coast station license copy must be kept as part of the ship station license.

(3) Any addition or deletion of ships must be notified to the Commission by letter.

