(a) Ships must be provided with radio installations capable of complying with the functional requirements prescribed by § 80.1081 throughout its intended voyage and, unless exempted under § 80.1071, complying with the requirements of § 80.1085 and, as appropriate for the sea area of areas through which it will pass during its intended voyage, the requirements of either § 80.1087, § 80.1089, § 80.1091, or § 80.1093.

(b) The radio installation must:

(1) Be so located that no harmful interference of mechanical, electrical or other origin affects its proper use, and so as to ensure electromagnetic compatibility and avoidance of harmful interaction with other equipment and systems;

(2) Be so located as to ensure the greatest possible degree of safety and operational availability;

(3) Be protected against harmful effects of water, extremes of temperature and other adverse environmental conditions;

(4) Be provided with reliable, permanently arranged electrical lighting, independent of the main and emergency sources of electrical power, for the adequate illumination of the radio controls for operating the radio installation; and

(5) Be clearly marked with the call sign, the ship station identity and other codes as applicable for the use of the radio installation.

(c) Control of the VHF radiotelephone channels required for navigational safety must be immediately available on the navigating bridge convenient to the conning position and, where necessary, facilities should be available to permit radio-communications from the wings of the navigating bridge. Portable VHF equipment may be used to meet the latter provision.

(d) Shipborne Integrated Radiocommunication System (IRCS) may be utilized to integrate all GMDSS equipment into a standard operator's console. Such installation must be certified in accordance with § 80.1103 and meet the requirements of IMO Resolution A.811(19) (incorporated by reference, see § 80.7).

(e) In passenger ships, a distress panel shall be installed at the conning position. This panel shall contain either one single button which, when pressed, initiates a distress alert using all radiocommunications installations required on board for that purpose or one button for each individual installation. The panel shall clearly and visually indicate whenever any button or buttons have been pressed. Means shall be provided to prevent inadvertent activation of the button or buttons. If the satellite EPIRB is used as the secondary means of distress alerting and is not remotely activated, it shall be acceptable to have an additional EPIRB installed in the wheelhouse near the conning position.

(f) In passenger ships, information on the ship's position shall be continuously and automatically provided to all relevant radiocommunications equipment to be included in the initial distress alert when the button or buttons on the distress panel is pressed.

(g) In passenger ships, a distress alarm panel shall be installed at the conning position. The distress alarm panel shall provide visual and aural indication of any distress alert or alerts received on board and shall also indicate through which radiocommunication service the distress alerts have been received.

