(a) On-scene communications are those between mobile unit in distress and assisting mobile units, and between the mobile units and unit coordinating search and rescue operations.

(b) Control of on-scene communications is the responsibility of the unit coordinating search and rescue operations. Simplex communications must be used so that all on-scene mobile stations may share relevant information concerning the distress incident. If direct-printing telegraphy is used, it must be in the forward error-correcting mode in accordance with ITU-R Recommendation M.625-3, with Annex, as specified in § 80.1101.

(c) The preferred frequencies in radiotelephony for on-scene communications are 156.8 MHz and 2182 kHz. The frequency 2174.5 kHz may also be used for ship-to-ship on-scene communications using narrow-band direct-printing telegraphy in the forward error correcting mode in accordance with ITU-R Recommendation M.625-3, “Direct-printing Telegraph Equipment Employing Automatic Identification in the Maritime Mobile Service,” with Annex, 1995, as specified in § 80.1101. ITU-R Recommendation M.625-3 with Annex is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of this standard can be inspected at the Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC (Reference Information Center) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. The ITU-R Recommendation can be purchased from the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Place des Nations, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland.

(d) In addition to 156.8 MHz and 2182 kHz, the frequencies 3023 kHz, 4125 kHz, 5680 kHz, 123.1 MHz and 156.3 MHz may be used for ship-to-aircraft on-scene communications.

(e) The selection or designation of on-scene frequencies is the responsibility of the unit coordinating search and rescue operations. Normally, once an on-scene frequency is established, a continuous aural or teleprinter watch is maintained by all participating on-scene mobile units on the selected frequency.

