(a) Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section, INMARSAT-E EPIRBs must meet all the technical and performance standards contained in IEC 61097-5 Ed. 1.0, titled “Global maritime and distress safety system (GMDSS)—Part 5: INMARSAT-E—Emergency position indicating radio beacon (EPIRB) operating through the INMARSAT system—Operational and performance requirements, methods of testing and required test results,” including Annexes A, B, and C, 1997. IEC 61097-5 Ed. 1.0, including Annexes A, B, and C, is incorporated by reference (see § 80.1101).
              

(b) Prior to submitting a certification application for an INMARSAT-E radiobeacon, the radiobeacon must be certified by INMARSAT as complying with IEC 61097-5 Ed. 1.0. In addition, the radiobeacon must be tested as to compliance with the environmental and operational requirements identified in this paragraph (b) by the test facility which conducted the INMARSAT certification tests, or a test facility recognized by the U.S. Coast Guard. Information regarding recognized test facilities may be obtained from Commandant (G-MSE), U.S. Coast Guard, 2100 2nd Street, SW., Washington, D.C. 20593-0001, http://www.uscg.mil/hq/g-m/mse/lablist/161.011.htm.
              

(1) After an INMARSAT-E PIRB has been certified by the test facility, the following information must be submitted in duplicate to the Commandant (G-MSE), U.S. Coast Guard, 2100 2nd Street, SW., Washington D.C. 20593-0001:

(i) The name of the manufacturer or grantee and the model number of the radiobeacon;
              

(ii) Copies of the Inmarsat certification of compliance with IEC 61097-5 Ed. 1.0;

(iii) Copies of the test report and test data obtained from the test facility showing that the radiobeacon complies with IEC 61097-5 Ed. 1.0 and the environmental and operational requirements identified in this paragraph (b); and

(iv) Instruction manuals associated with the radiobeacon, description of the test characteristics of the radiobeacon including assembly drawings, electrical schematics, description of parts list, specifications of materials, and the manufacturer's quality assurance program.

(2) After reviewing the information described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the U.S. Coast Guard will issue a letter stating whether the radiobeacon satisfies all of the requirements specified in paragrpahs (a) and (b) of this section.

(c) A certification application for an INMARSAT-EPIRB submitted to the Commission must also contain a copy of the U.S. Coast Guard letter stating that the radiobeacon satisfies all of the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, a copy of the technical test data, and the instruction manual(s).

(d) The manufacturer or grantee must include with each marketable INMARSAT-E EPIRB appropriate material for registration of the radiobeacon with INMARSAT, along with a written warning that failure to register the radiobeacon could delay rescue services in an emergency.

(e) To enhance protection of life and property it is mandatory that each INMARSAT-E EPIRB be registered with INMARSAT before installation and that information be kept up-to-date. Therefore, in addition to the identification plate or label requirements contained in §§ 2.925 and 2.926 of this chapter, each INMARSAT-E EPIRB must be provided on the outside with a clearly discernable permanent plate or label containing the following statement: “The owner of this INMARSAT-E EPIRB must register the NOAA identification code contained on this label with INMARSAT at the following address: INMARSAT, 99 City Road, London, EC1Y 1AX, United Kingdom.” Vessel owners shall advise INMARSAT in writing upon change of vessel or EPIRB ownership, transfer of EPIRB to another vessel, or any other change in registration information.

(f) For INMARSAT-E EPIRBs whose identification code can be changed after manufacture, the identification code shown on the plate or label must be easily replaceable using commonly available tools.

