(a) General. A station license cannot be granted to or held by a foreign government or its representative.

(b) Public coast stations and Alaska-public fixed stations. A station license for a public coast station or an Alaska-public fixed station cannot be granted to or held by:

(1) Any alien or the representative of any alien;

(2) Any foreign government or its representative;

(3) Any corporation organized under the laws of any foreign government;

(4) Any corporation of which more than one-fifth of the capital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens or their representatives or by a foreign government or its representative, or by a corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country; or

(5) Any corporation directly or indirectly controlled by any other corporation of which more than one-fourth of the capital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens, their representatives, or by a foreign government or its representatives, or by any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country, if the Commission finds that the public interest will be served by the refusal or revocation of such license.

(c) Private coast and marine utility stations. The supplemental eligibility requirements for private coast and marine utility stations are contained in ยง 80.501(a).

(d) Ship stations. A ship station license may only be granted to:

(1) The owner or operator of the vessel;

(2) A subsidiary communications corporation of the owner or operator of the vessel;

(3) A State or local government subdivision; or

(e) EPIRB stations. (1) Class A or Class B EPIRB stations will be authorized for use on board the following types of vessels until December 31, 2006:

(i) Vessels authorized to carry survival craft; or

(ii) Vessels expected to travel in waters beyond the range of marine VHF distress coverage which is generally considered to be more than 32 kilometers (approximately 20 miles) offshore; or

(iii) Vessels required to be fitted with EPIRB's to comply with U.S. Coast Guard regulations.

(2) A 406.0-406.1 MHz EPIRB may be used by any ship required to carry an EPIRB pursuant to 46 CFR subpart 25.26 or 46 CFR 28.150, 117.64, 117.200, 133.60, 180.64, 180.200, 180.204, 180.205, or 199.510, or by any ship that is equipped with a VHF ship radio station. An INMARSAT-E EPIRB may be used by any ship required by these U.S. Coast Guard regulations to carry an EPIRB or by any ship that is equipped with a VHF radio station, provided that the ship is not operating in sea area A4 as defined in ยง 80.1069(a)(4).
              

