(a) Each telegraphy passenger ship equipped with a radiotelegraph station in accordance with Part II of Title III of the Communications Act must carry one radio officer holding a first or second class radiotelegraph operator's certificate and a second radio officer holding either a first or second class radiotelegraph operator's certificate. The holder of a second class radiotelegraph operator's certificate may not act as the chief radio officer.

(b) Each cargo ship equipped with a radiotelegraph station in accordance with Part II of Title III of the Communications Act and which has a radiotelegraph auto alarm must carry a radio officer holding a first or second class radiotelegraph operator's certificate who has had at least six months service as a radio officer on board U.S. ships. If the radiotelegraph station does not have an auto alarm, a second radio officer who holds a first or second class radiotelegraph operator's certificate must be carried.

(c) Each cargo ship equipped with a radiotelephone station in accordance with Part II of Title III of the Communications Act must carry a radio operator who meets the following requirements:

(1) Where the station power does not exceed 1500 watts peak envelope power, the operator must hold a marine radio operator permit or higher class license.

(2) Where the station power exceeds 1500 watts peak envelope power, the operator must hold a general radiotelephone radio operator license or higher class license.

(d) Each passenger ship equipped with a GMDSS installation in accordance with subpart W of this part shall carry at least two persons holding an appropriate GMDSS Radio Operator License or, if the passenger ship operates exclusively within twenty nautical miles of shore, at least two persons holding either a GMDSS Radio Operator License or a Restricted GMDSS Radio Operator License, as specified in ยง 13.7 of this chapter.

(e) Each ship transporting more than six passengers for hire equipped with a radiotelephone station in accordance with Part III of Title III of the Communications Act must carry a radio operator who meets the following requirements:

(1) Where the station power does not exceed 250 watts carrier power or 1500 watts peak envelope power, the radio operator must hold a marine radio operator permit or higher class license.

(2) Where the station power exceeds 250 watts carrier power or 1500 watts peak envelope power, the radio operator must hold a general radiotelephone operator license or higher class license.

