(a) This section addresses certain issues concerning designated entities in maritime communications services subject to competitive bidding.

(b) Eligibility for small business provisions. (1) A small business is an entity that, together with its affiliates and controlling interests, has average gross revenues not to exceed $15 million for the preceding three years.

(2) A very small business is an entity that, together with its affiliates and controlling interests, has average gross revenues not to exceed $3 million for the preceding three years.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) A consortium of small businesses (or a consortium of very small businesses) is a conglomerate organization formed as a joint venture between or among mutually independent business firms, each of which individually satisfies the definition in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (or each of which individually satisfies the definition in paragraph (b)(2) of this section). Where an applicant or licensee is a consortium of small businesses (or very small businesses), the gross revenues of each small business (or very small business) shall not be aggregated.

(c) A winning bidder that qualifies as a small business, as defined in § 80.1252(b)(1), or consortium of small businesses may use the bidding credit specified in § 1.2110(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter. A winning bidder that qualifies as a very small business, as defined in § 80.1252(b(2), or consortium of very small businesses may use the bidding credit specified in § 1.2110(f)(2)(i) of this chapter.

(d) A winning bidder that qualifies as a small business or a consortium of small businesses as defined in § 80.1252(b)(1) or § 80.1252(b)(5) of this subpart may use the bidding credit specified in § 1.2110(e)(2)(ii) of this chapter. A winning bidder that qualifies as a very small business or a consortium of very small businesses as defined in § 80.1252(b)(2) or § 80.1252(b)(5) of this subpart may use the bidding credit specified in § 1.2110(e)(2)(i) of this chapter.

