(a) Calling coast stations. (1) Use by ship stations of the frequency 2182 kHz for calling coast stations and for replying to calls from coast stations is authorized. However, such calls and replies should be on the appropriate ship-shore working frequency.

(2) Use by ship stations and marine utility stations of the frequency 156.800 MHz for calling coast stations and marine utility stations on shore, and for replying to calls from such stations, is authorized. However, such calls and replies should be made on the appropriate ship-shore working frequency.

(b) Calling ship stations. (1) Except when other operating procedure is used to expedite safety communication, ship stations, before transmitting on the intership working frequencies 2003, 2142, 2638, 2738, or 2830 kHz, must first establish communications with other ship stations by call and reply on 2182 kHz. Calls may be initiated on an intership working frequency when it is known that the called vessel maintains a simultaneous watch on the working frequency and on 2182 kHz.

(2) Except when other operating procedures are used to expedite safety communications, the frequency 156.800 MHz must be used for call and reply by ship stations and marine utility stations before establishing communication on one of the intership working frequencies. Calls may be initiated on an intership working frequency when it is known that the called vessel maintains a simultaneous watch on the working frequency and on 156.800 MHz.

(c) Change to working frequency. After establishing communication with another station by call and reply on 2182 kHz or 156.800 MHz stations on board ship must change to an authorized working frequency for the transmission of messages.

(d) Limitations on calling. Calling a particular station must not continue for more than 30 seconds in each instance. If the called station does not reply, the station must not again be called until after an interval of 2 minutes. When a called station called does not reply to a call sent three times at intervals of 2 minutes, the calling must cease and must not be renewed until after an interval of 15 minutes; however, if there is no reason to believe that harmful interference will be caused to other communications in progress, the call sent three times at intervals of 2 minutes may be repeated after a pause of not less than 3 minutes. In event of an emergency involving safety, the provisions of this paragraph do not apply.

(e) Limitations on working. Any one exchange of communications between any two ship stations on 2003, 2142, 2638, 2738, or 2830 kHz or between a ship station and a private coast station on 2738 or 2830 kHz must not exceed 3 minutes after the stations have established contact. Subsequent to such exchange of communications, the same two stations must not again use 2003, 2142, 2638, 2738, or 2830 kHz for communication with each other until 10 minutes have elapsed.

(f) Transmission limitation on 2182 kHz and 156.800 MHz. To facilitate the reception of distress calls, all transmissions on 2182 kHz and 156.800 MHz (channel 16) must be minimized and transmissions on 156.800 MHz must not exceed 1 minute.

(g) Limitations on commercial communication. On frequencies in the band 156-162 MHz, the exchange of commercial communication must be limited to the minimum practicable transmission time. In the conduct of ship-shore communication other than distress, stations on board ship must comply with instructions given by the private coast station or marine utility station on shore with which they are communicating.

