(a) All equipment specified in § 80.1101 must be certificated in accordance with 47 CFR part 2 specifically for GMDSS use, except for equipment used in the INMARSAT space segment which must be type-approved by INMARSAT and verified in accordance with 47 CFR part 2 specifically for GMDSS use. The technical parameters of the equipment must conform to the performance standards as specified in § 80.1101. For emergency position-indicating radiobeacons operating on 406.0-406.1 MHz (406.0-406.1 MHz EPIRBs) that were authorized prior to April 15, 1992, and meet the requirements of § 80.1101, the manufacturer may attest by letter that the equipment (indicate FCC ID#) meets the requirements of § 80.1101 and request that it be denoted as approved for GMDSS use.

(b) Applicants for certification must submit with their applications measurement data sufficiently complete to ensure compliance with the technical parameters. The application must include the items listed in 47 CFR 2.1033. Additional measurement data or information may be requested depending upon the equipment. For items not listed in § 2.1033 of this chapter, the applicant must attest that the equipment complies with performance standards as specified in § 80.1101 and, where applicable, that measurements have been made that demonstrate the necessary compliance. Submission of representative data demonstrating compliance is not required unless requested by the Commission.

(c) Applicants for verification must attest that the equipment complies with performance standards as specified in § 80.1101 and, where applicable, that measurements have been made that demonstrate the necessary compliance. Submission of representative data demonstrating compliance is not required unless requested by the Commission. An application must include the items listed in §§ 2.953 and 2.955 of this chapter and a copy of the type-approval certification indicating that equipment meets GMDSS standards and includes all peripheral equipment associated with the specific unit under review.

(d) Submission of a sample unit is not required unless specifically requested by the Commission.

(e) In addition to the requirements in part 2 of this chapter, equipment specified in § 80.1101 shall be labeled as follows: “This device complies with the GMDSS provisions of part 80 of the FCC rules.” Such a label is not required for emergency position-indicating radiobeacons operating on 406.0-406.1 MHz (406.0-406.1 MHz EPIRBs) that were authorized prior to April 15, 1992.

