This section is applicable to all stations using telephony except where otherwise specified.

(a) Station licensees must not cause harmful interference. When radiation is necessary or unavoidable, the testing procedure described below must be followed:

(1) The operator must not interfere with transmissions in progress.

(2) The testing station's call sign, followed by the word “test”, must be announced on the radio-channel being used for the test.

(3) If any station responds “wait”, the test must be suspended for a minimum of 30 seconds, then repeat the call sign followed by the word “test” and listen again for a response. To continue the test, the operator must use counts or phrases which do not conflict with normal operating signals, and must end with the station's call sign. Test signals must not exceed ten seconds, and must not be repeated until at least one minute has elapsed. On the frequency 2182 kHz or 156.800 MHz, the time between tests must be a minimum of five minutes.

(b) Testing of transmitters must be confined to single frequency channels on working frequencies. However, 2182 kHz and 156.800 MHz may be used to contact ship or coast stations as appropriate when signal reports are necessary. Short tests on 4125 kHz are permitted by vessels equipped with MF/HF radios to evaluate the compatibility of the equipment for distress and safety purposes. U.S. Coast Guard stations may be contacted on 2182 kHz or 156.800 MHz for test purposes only when tests are being conducted by Commission employees, when FCC-licensed technicians are conducting inspections on behalf of the Commission, when qualified technicians are installing or repairing radiotelephone equipment, or when qualified ship's personnel conduct an operational check requested by the U.S. Coast Guard. In these cases the test must be identified as “FCC” or “technical.”

(c) Survival craft transmitter tests must not be made within actuating range of automatic alarm receivers.

