This section contains the general equipment requirements for all ships subject to this subpart.

(a) Ships must be provided with:

(1) A VHF radio installation capable of transmitting and receiving:

(i) DSC on the frequency 156.525 MHz (channel 70), and it must be able to initiate the transmission of distress alerts on channel 70 from the position from which the ship is normally navigated; and

(ii) Radiotelephony on the frequencies 156.300 MHz (channel 6), 156.650 MHz (channel 13), and 156.800 MHz (channel 16);

(2) A dedicated, non-scanning radio installation capable of maintaining a continuous DSC watch on VHF channel 70 which may be separate from, or combined with, that required by paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;

(3) A radar transponder capable of operating in the 9 GHz band, which must be stowed so that it is easily utilized (this transponder may be one of those required by § 80.1095(b) for a survival craft);

(4) A receiver capable of receiving international NAVTEX service broadcasts;

(5) If the ship is engaged on voyages in any area of INMARSAT coverage in which an international NAVTEX service is not provided, a radio facility for reception of maritime safety information by the INMARSAT enhanced group calling system, i.e., SafetyNet, (this requirement does not apply to ships engaged exclusively on voyages in areas where an HF direct-printing telegraphy maritime safety information service, as identified by the IMO GMDSS Master Plan Publication, is provided and the ship is fitted with equipment capable of receiving such service); and

(6) A satellite emergency position-indicating radio beacon (satellite EPIRB) which must be:
                

(i) Capable of transmitting a distress alert through the polar orbiting satellite service operating in the 406.0-406.1 MHz band (406.0-406.1 MHz EPIRB) or, if the ship is not operating in sea area A4, as defined in § 80.1069(a)(4), the 1.6 GHz band (INMARSAT-E EPIRB)
                

(ii) Installed in an easily accessible position, ready to be manually released and capable of being carried by one person into a survival craft, capable of floating free if the ship sinks and of being automatically activated when afloat, and capable of being activated manually.

(iii) Examined and tested annually in accordance with the IMO standard, Circular MSC/Circ.1040, Guidelines on annual testing of 406 MHz satellite EPIRBs (28 May 2002). See § 80.1105(k). Circular MSC/Circ.1040 is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of these standards can be inspected at the Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC (Reference Information Center) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. The IMO standards can be purchased from International Maritime Organization (IMO), Publications, International Maritime Organization, 4 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7SR, United Kingdom; telephone 011 44 71 735 7611.

(b) Ships must carry either the most recent edition of the IMO publication entitled GMDSS Master Plan of Shore-Based Facilities, the U.S. NIMA Publication 117, or the Admiralty List of Radio Signals Volume 5 Global Maritime Distress and Safety System. Notice of new editions will be published on the Commission's Wireless Telecommunications Bureau web page under “Marine Services” and information will be provided about obtaining the new document.

(c) All GMDSS equipment capable of transmitting an automatic distress alert which includes position of the ship must have either an integral navigation receiver or capability of being connected to an external navigation receiver. If an external navigation receiver is installed, it shall be connected to all of the alerting devices referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. If there is no navigation receiver, the position must be entered manually for each alerting device at least once every 4 hours (at the change of the navigation watch).

(d) Every passenger ship shall be provided with means for two-way on-scene radiocommunications for search and rescue purposes using the aeronautical frequencies 121.5 and 123.1 MHz from the position from which the ship is normally navigated.

