(a) Locating signals are radio transmissions intended to facilitate the finding of a mobile unit in distress or the location of survivors. These signals include those transmitted by searching units and those transmitted by the mobile unit in distress, by survival craft, by float-free EPIRBS, by satellite EPRIBs, and by search and rescue radar transponders to assist the searching units.

(b) Homing singnals are those locating signals which are transmitted by mobile units in distress, or by survival craft, for the purpose of providing searching units with a signal that can be used to determine the bearing to the transmitting stations.

(c) Locating signals may be transmitted in the following frequency bands: 117.975-136 MHz, 121.5 MHz, 156-174 MHz, 406-406.1 MHz, and 9200-9500 MHz.

(d) The 9 GHz locating signals must be in accordance with ITU-R Recommendation M.628-3, “Technical Characteristics for Search and Rescue Radar Transponders,” with Annexes, 1994, as specified in § 80.1101. ITU-R Recommendation M.628-3 with Annexes is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of this standard can be inspected at the Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC (Reference Information Center) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. The ITU-R Recommendation can be purchased from the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Place des Nations, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland.

