(a) Operating procedures for the use of DSC equipment in the maritime mobile service are as contained in ITU-R M.541-9, “Operational Procedures for the Use of Digital Selective-Calling Equipment in the Maritime Mobile Service,” with Annexes 1 through 5, 2004, and subpart W of this part.

(b) When using DSC techniques, coast stations and ship stations must use maritime mobile service identities (MMSI) assigned by the Commission or its designees.

(c) DSC acknowledgment of DSC distress and safety calls must be made by designated coast stations and such acknowledgment must be in accordance with procedures contained in ITU-R M.541-9, “Operational Procedures for the Use of Digital Selective-Calling Equipment in the Maritime Mobile Service,” with Annexes 1 through 5, 2004. Nondesignated public and private coast stations must follow the guidance provided for ship stations in ITU-R M.541-9, “Operational Procedures for the Use of Digital Selective-Calling Equipment in the Maritime Mobile Service,” with Annexes 1 through 5, 2004, with respect to DSC “Acknowledgment of distress calls” and “Distress relays.” (See subpart W of this part.)

(d) Group calls to vessels under the common control of a single entity are authorized. A group call identity may be created from an MMSI ending in a zero, assigned to this single entity, by deleting the trailing zero and adding a leading zero to the identity.

(e) ITU-R M.541-9 with Annexes 1 through 5, 2004, is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of this standard can be inspected at the Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC (Reference Information Center) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. The ITU-R Recommendation can be purchased from the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Place des Nations, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland.

