(a) Radar installations on board ships that are required by the Safety Convention or the U.S. Coast Guard to be equipped with radar must comply with the documents referenced in the following paragraphs of this section. These documents contain specifications, standards and general requirements applicable to shipboard radar equipment and shipboard radar installations. For purposes of this part the specifications, standards and general requirements stated in these documents are mandatory irrespective of discretionary language. The standards listed in this section are incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of these standards can be inspected at the Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC (Reference Information Center) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. The IMO standards can be purchased from International Maritime Organization (IMO), Publications, International Maritime Organization, 4 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7SR, United Kingdom; telephone 011 44 71 735 7611. IEC publications can be purchased from the International Electrotechnical Commission, 3 Rue de Varembe, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland, or from the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) through its NSSN operation (www.nssn.org), at Customer Service, American National Standards Institute, 25 West 43rd Street, New York, NY 10036, telephone (212) 642-4900. ITU documents can be purchased from the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Place des Nations, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland (www.itu.int.)

(b) Radar installed on or after March 25, 2008 on ships of 300 tons gross tonnage and upwards, and radar installed on a ship after March 25, 2008, and certificated by the U.S. Coast Guard under the IMO Code for the Safety of High Speed Craft (Resolution MSC.36(63), May 20, 1994, with Supplement (2002) must comply with:

(1) IMO Resolution MSC.64(67), “Adoption of New and Amended Performance Standards,” Annex 4, “Recommendation on performance standards for radar equipment,” adopted on 4 December 1996;

(2) The emission limits contained in ITU Radio Regulations, Appendices Edition of 2004, Appendix 3 (Rev. WRC-03), “Tables of maximum permitted power levels for spurious or spurious domain emissions,” Section II—“Spurious domain emission limits for transmitters installed after 1 January 2003 and for all transmitters after 1 January 2012,” including Annex 1; and
              

(3) ITU-R M.1177-3, “Techniques for measurement of unwanted emissions of radar systems,” including Annexes 1 and 2 and all appendices, 2003.

(c) For any ship of 10,000 tons gross tonnage and upwards or that is otherwise required to be equipped with two radar systems, each of the two radar systems must be capable of operating independently and must comply with the specifications, standards and general requirements set forth on paragraph (b) of this section. One of the systems must provide a display with an effective diameter of not less than 340 millimeters (13.4 inches), (16-inch cathode ray tube). The other system must provide a display with an effective diameter of not less than 250 millimeters (9.8 inches), (12-inch cathode ray tube).

(d) Radar installed before March 25, 2008 must meet and be maintained to comply with the Commission's regulations in effect for the equipment on the date of its installation.

