This section describes the general uses and frequencies assignable to maritime stations for distress, urgency, safety, call and reply radiotelephony communications.

(a) In the 1605-3500 kHz band, the frequency 2182 is an international radiotelephony distress, urgency and safety frequency for ship stations, public and private coast stations, and survival craft stations. It is also used for call and reply by ship stations on a primary basis and by public coast stations on a secondary basis. The carrier frequency 2191 kHz may be used as a supplementary calling frequency in areas of heavy usage of 2182 kHz. All stations must use J3E emission when operating on 2182 and 2191 kHz, except that:

(1) H3E emission may be used on 2182 kHz for communications with foreign coast and ship stations; or,

(2) A3E emission may be used on 2182 kHz by portable survival craft stations, or transmitters authorized for use prior to January 1, 1972. See ยง 80.203(c).

(b) The frequencies 4125.0 kHz, 6215 kHz, 8291 kHz, 12290 kHz, and 16420 kHz may be used by coast and ship stations on a simplex basis for distress and safety communications. The frequency 4125.0 kHz may also be used for distress and safety communications between aircraft and maritime mobile stations.

(c) The frequency 5167.5 kHz is available to any station for emergency communications in the State of Alaska. Peak envelope power of stations operating on this frequency must not exceed 150 watts. This frequency may also be used by Alaska private fixed stations for calling and listening, but only for establishing communication.

(d) In the 4000-27500 kHz band, the following coast frequencies are available for assignment to public coast stations for call and reply communications. The paired ship frequencies are available for use by authorized ship stations.

(e) In the 120-156 MHz band the following frequencies are used as indicated:

(1) The frequencies 121.500 MHz and 123.100 MHz using A3E emission are available for scene of action search and rescue operations to ship, coast and aircraft stations. Communications in support of search and rescue operations must employ the frequency 121.500 MHz only when communications on 123.100 MHz or other VHF frequencies is not practicable. Ship, coast and aircraft stations engaged in such communications on 121.500 MHz must shift to 123.100 MHz as soon as possible.

(2) The frequency 156.525 MHz is available for intership, ship and coast general purpose, distress and safety DSC calls.

(3) The frequency 156.800 MHz is the international radiotelephone distress, urgency, safety, call and reply frequency for ship, public and private coast stations. Stations operating on 156.800 MHz must be able to transmit and receive using G3E emission.

(4) The frequency 156.450 MHz (channel 9) is available for intership, ship and coast station general purpose calling by noncommercial vessels, such as recreational boats. Distress, urgency and safety calls should initially be made on 156.800 MHz (channel 16) or, if equipped with DSC, on 156.525 MHz (channel 70).

