This section describes the radiotelephony working frequencies assignable to ship and public coast stations.

(a) Working frequencies in the 2000-4000 kHz band. The following table describes the working carrier frequency pairs in the 2000-4000 kHz band.

(b) Working frequencies in the 4000-27500 kHz band. This paragraph describes the working carrier frequencies in the 4000-27500 kHz band. With respect to frequencies that are assignable in more than one geographical area, once the frequency is assigned to one licensee, any subsequent license will be authorized on a secondary, non-interference basis with respect to the incumbent license's existing operation. If the first licensee later seeks authorization to operate in an additional geographic area, such authorization will be on a secondary, non-interference basis to other co-channel licensees.

(1) The following table specifies the carrier frequencies available for assignment to public coast stations. The paired ship frequencies are available for use by authorized ship stations. The specific frequency assignment available to public coast stations for a particular geographic area is indicated by an “x” under the appropriate column. The allotment areas are in accordance with the “Standard Defined Areas” as identified in the International Radio Regulations, Appendix 25 Planning System, and indicated in the preface to the International Frequency List (IFL).

(2) The following table specifies the non-paired carrier frequencies that are available for assignment to public coast stations for simplex operations. These frequencies are available for use by authorized ship stations for transmissions to coast stations (simplex operations). Assignments on these frequencies must accept interference. They are shared with government users and are considered “common use” frequencies under the international Radio Regulations. They cannot be notified for inclusion in the Master International Frequency Register, which provides stations with interference protection, but may be listed in the international List of Coast Stations. (See Radio Regulation No. 1220 and Recommendation 304.)

(c) Working frequencies in the marine VHF 156-162 MHz band. (1)(i) The frequency pairs listed in this paragraph are available for assignment to public coast stations for communications with ship stations and units on land.

(ii) Service areas in the marine VHF 156-162 MHz band are VHF Public Coast Service Areas (VPCSAs). As listed in the table in this paragraph, VPCSAs are based on, and composed of one or more of, the U.S. Department of Commerce's 172 Economic Areas (EAs). See 60 FR 13114 (March 10, 1995). In addition, the Commission shall treat Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Gulf of Mexico as EA-like areas, and has assigned them EA numbers 173-176, respectively. Maps of the EAs and VPCSAs are available for public inspection and copying at the FCC Public Reference Room, Room CY-A257, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20554, 1-888-225-5322. In addition to the EAs listed in the table in this paragraph, each VPCSA also includes the adjacent waters under the jurisdiction of the United States. In VPCSAs 10-42, the working carrier frequency pair 157.250 MHz/161.850 MHz (Channel 25) is not available for assignment under part 80.

(iii) Subject to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, each licensee may also operate on 12.5 kHz offset frequencies in areas where the licensee is authorized on both frequencies adjacent to the offset frequency, and in areas where the licensee on the other side of the offset frequency consents to the licensee's use of the adjacent offset frequency. Coordination with Canada is required for offset operations under any circumstance in which operations on either adjoining 25 kHz channel would require such coordination. See § 80.57 of this part.

(2) Any recovered channel pairs will revert automatically to the holder of the VPCSA license within which such channels are included, except the channel pairs listed in the table in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. Those channel pairs, and any channel pairs recovered where there is no VPCSA licensee, will be retained by the Commission for future licensing.

(3) VPCSA licensees may not operate on Channel 228B (162.0125 MHz), which is available for use in the Coast Guard's Ports and Waterways Safety System (PAWSS). In addition, VPCSA licensees may not operate on Channel AIS 1 (161.975 MHz) or Channel AIS 2 (162.025 MHz), which are designated exclusively for Automatic Identification Systems (AIS), except to receive AIS communications to the same extent, and subject to the same limitations, as other shore stations participating in AIS. See note 3 to the table in paragraph (c)(1) of this section regarding use of Channel AIS 1 by VPCSA licensees in VPCSAs 10-42.

(4) Subject to the requirements of § 1.924 of this chapter and § 80.21, each VPCSA licensee may place stations anywhere within its region without obtaining prior Commission approval provided:

(i) It provides to co-channel coast station incumbent licensees, and incumbent Private Land Mobile Radio licensees authorized under part 90 of this chapter on a primary basis, protection as defined in subpart P of this part. VPCSA licensees that share a common border may either distribute the available frequencies upon mutual agreement or request that the Commission assign frequencies along the common border.

(ii) The locations and/or technical parameters of the transmitters are such that individual coordination of the channel assignment(s) with a foreign administration, under applicable international agreements and rules in this part, is not required.

(iii) For any construction or alteration that would exceed the requirements of § 17.7 of this chapter, licensees must notify the appropriate Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA Form 7460-1) and file a request for antenna height clearance and obstruction marking and lighting specifications (FCC Form 854) with the FCC, Attn: Information Processing Branch, 1270 Fairfield Rd., Gettysburg, PA 17325-7245.

(iv) The transmitters must not have a significant environmental effect as defined by §§ 1.1301 through 1.1319 of this chapter.

(d) Working frequencies in the Mississippi River System. The Mississippi River System includes the Mississippi River and connecting navigable waters other than the Great Lakes. The following simplex frequencies are available for assignment to public coast stations serving the Mississippi River System for radiotelephony communications. These simplex frequencies also are available for use by authorized ship stations within communication service range, whether or not the ship is operating within the confines of the Mississippi River System.

(e) Canada/U.S.A. channeling arrangement frequencies. The VHF frequencies assignable to ship and coast stations in the State of washington and their usage limitations purusant to the Canada/U.S.A. channeling arrangement are described in subpart B of this part.

