(a) The urgency signal indicates that the calling station has a very urgent message to transmit concerning the safety of a ship, aircraft, or other vehicle, or the safety of a person. The urgency signal must be sent only on the authority of the master or person responsible for the mobile station.

(b) In radiotelegraphy, the urgency signal consists of three repetitions of the group XXX, sent with the individual letters of each group, and the successive groups clearly separated from each other. It must be transmitted before the call.

(c) In radiotelephony, the urgency signal consists of three oral repetitions of the group of words PAN PAN transmitted before the call.

(d) The urgency signal has priority over all other communications except distress. All mobile and land stations which hear it must not interfere with the transmission of the message which follows the urgency signal.

(e) The urgency signal and call, and the message following it, must be sent on one of the international distress frequencies. Stations which cannot transmit on a distress frequency may use any other available frequency on which attention might be attracted.

(f) Mobile stations which hear the urgency signal must continue to listen for at least three minutes. At the end of this period, if no urgency message has been heard, they may resume their normal service. However, land and mobile stations which are in communication on frequencies other than those used for the transmission of the urgency signal and of the call which follows it may continue their normal work without interruption provided the urgency message is not addressed “to all stations”.

(g) When the urgency signal has been sent before transmitting a message “to all stations” which calls for action by the stations receiving the message, the station responsible for its transmission must cancel it as soon as it knows that action is no longer necessary. This message of cancellation must likewise be addressed “to all stations”.

