This section describes the carrier frequencies assignable to radiodetermination stations. Only direction finding radar stations will be authorized on land.

(a) Direction finding frequencies. The carrier frequencies assignable to ship stations for directional finding operations are:

(b) Radiodetermination frequencies for cable-repair ships. Except in Region 1 the channels in the 285-325 kHz band are assignable to ship stations for cable-repair radiodetermination operations. In Region 1 the channels available for assignment for such operations are limited to the 285-315 kHz band. The conditions of use of these channels are set forth in subpart X of this part. Channel usage must comply with the following requirements:

(1) They are not permitted within the territorial waters of a foreign country;

(2) Their output power must not exceed 15 watts; and

(3) They must not cause interference to any maritime station in the radionavigation service.

(c) Radiodetermination frequencies below 500 MHz. The frequencies 154.585 MHz, 159.480 MHz, 160.725 MHz, 160.785 MHz, 454.000 MHz and 459.000 MHz are authorized for offshore radiolocation and associated telecommand operations under a ship station license provided:

(1) The use of these frequencies is related to the ship's commercial operations;
                

(2) The station antenna height does not exceed 6 meters (20 feet) above sea level in a buoy station or 6 meters (20 feet) above the mast of the ship in which it is installed.

(d) Radiodetermination frequency bands above 2400 MHz. (1) The radiodetermination frequency bands assignable to ship and shore stations including ship and shore radar and transponder stations are as follows: 2450-2500 MHz; 2900-3100 MHz; 5460-5650 MHz; and 9300-9500 MHz.

(2) Assignment of these bands to ship and coast stations are subject to the following conditions:

(i) The 2450-2500 MHz band may be used only for radiolocation on the condition that harmful interference must not be caused to the fixed and mobile services. No protection is provided from interference caused by emissions from industrial, scientific, or medical equipment;

(ii) The use of the 2900-3100 MHz, 5470-5650 MHz and 9300-9500 MHz bands for radiolocation must not cause harmful interference to the radionavigation and Government radiolocation services. Additionally, the use of the 2900-3000 MHz band for radiolocation must not cause harmful interference to the Government meteorological aids service.

(iii) In the 2920-3100 MHz and 9320-9500 MHz bands the use of fixed-frequency transponders for radionavigation is not permitted;

(iv) Non-Government radiolocation stations may be authorized in the 5460-5470 MHz band on the condition that harmful interference shall not be caused to the aeronautical or maritime radionavigation services or to Government radiolocation service;

(v) The use of the 5460-5650 MHz band for radionavigation is limited to shipborne radar.

(e) Search and rescue radar transponder stations. The technical standards for search and rescue transponder stations are in subpart W of this part.

