(a) Each ship of the United States that is equipped with a radiotelephone station for compliance with the Great Lakes Radio Agreement must when underway keep a watch on:

(1) 156.800 MHz on board a vessel 20 meters (65 feet) and over in length, a vessel engaged in towing (See ยง 80.951(b)), or a vessel carrying more than 6 passengers for hire. This watch must be maintained whenever the station is not being used for authorized traffic. However, a watch on 156.800 MHz need not be maintained by a vessel maintaining a watch on the bridge-to-bridge frequency 156.650 MHz and participating in a Vessel Traffic Services (VTS) system and maintaining a watch on the specified VTS frequency.

(2) 156.650 MHz on board a vessel 38 meters (124 feet) and over in length, a vessel engaged in towing (See ยง 80.951(b)), or a vessel carrying more than six passengers for hire. This watch must be maintained continuously and effectively. Sequential monitoring is not sufficient. Portable VHF equipment may be used to meet this requirement. Vessels are exempted from this requirement while transiting the St. Lawrence Seaway and complying with the Joint Regulations of the St. Lawrence Seaway Authority and St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation between the lower exit of St. Lambert Lock at Montreal and Crossover Island, New York and in the Welland Canal and approaches between Calling in Point No. 15 and No. 16.

(b) The watch must be maintained by the master, or person designated by the master, who may perform other duties provided they do not interfere with the effectiveness of the watch.

