Other FCC rule parts applicable to licensees in the maritime services include the following:
                

(a) Part 0. This part describes the Commission's organization and delegations of authority. Part 0 also lists available Commission publications, standards and procedures for access to Commission records and location on Commission monitoring stations.

(b) Part 1. This part includes rules of practice and procedure for license applications, adjudicatory proceedings, procedures for reconsideration and review of the Commission's actions; provisions concerning violation notices and forfeiture proceedings; and the environmental processing requirements that, together with the procedures specified in ยง 17.4(c) of this chapter, if applicable, must be complied with prior to the initiation of construction. Subpart Q of part 1 contains rules governing competitive bidding procedures for resolving mutually exclusive applications for certain initial licenses.

(c) Part 2. This part contains the Table of Frequency Allocations and special requirements in international regulations, recommendations, agreements, and treaties. This part also contain standards and procedures concerning marketing of radio frequency devices, and for obtaining equipment authorization.

(d) Part 13. This part contains information and rules for the licensing of commercial radio operators.

(e) Part 17. This part contains requirements for the construction, marking and lighting of antenna towers, and the environmental notification process that must be completed before filing certain antenna structure registration applications.

(f) Part 20 of this chapter which governs commercial mobile radio services which include subpart J of this part (public coast stations).

(g) Part 21. This part contains rules concerning point-to-point microwave service authority relating to communication common carriers.

(h) Part 64. This part contains miscellaneous rules relating to communication common carriers.

(i) Part 68. This part contains technical standards for connection of terminal equipment to the telephone network.

(j) Part 87. This part contains rules for the aviation services. Some maritime frequencies are authorized for use by aircraft stations for safety and distress, public correpondence and for operational communications.

(k) Part 101. This part contains rules concerning the private microwave service relating to point-to-point communication requirements.

