(a) The carrier frequencies listed in (b) of this section are assignable for point-to-point simplex radiotelephone communications between private fixed stations in Alaska. The frequency pairs listed in paragraph (d) of this section are assignable for point-to-point duplex radiotelephone communications between private and public fixed stations in Alaska. Fixed stations in Alaska authorized to share carrier frequencies with the maritime mobile service must always give priority on such frequencies to maritime distress, urgency and safety communications.

(b) Alaska private-fixed station frequencies:
                

(c) Use of the frequencies in paragraph (b) of this section must meet the following conditions:

(1) Communications between private coast and private fixed stations are prohibited; and
                

(2) Station licensees must not charge for third party communication services between their station and any other private fixed station.

(d) The following carrier frequency pairs are assignable for point-to-point communications between public fixed and private fixed stations:

(e) The public fixed station frequencies are assignable to common carriers.

(f) The private fixed station frequencies described in paragraph (d) of this section are assignable to private entities located in areas where common carrier facilities are not available. Private fixed stations operating on the frequencies in paragraph (d) of this section, must communicate with public fixed stations only. Private fixed stations are permitted to provide third party communications between their station and the public fixed stations. A charge for such service is prohibited.

(g) U.S. Government frequencies will be authorized if the Commission determines that the assignment is in the public interest.

