(a) Public coast stations. (1) Each VHF public coast station geographic area licensee must notify the Commission of substantial service within its region or service area (subpart P) within five years of the initial license grant, and again within ten years of the initial license grant in accordance with § 1.946 of this chapter. “Substantial” service is defined as service which is sound, favorable, and substantially above a level of mediocre service which just might minimally warrant renewal. For site-based VHF public coast station licensees, when a new license has been issued or additional operating frequencies have been authorized, the licensee must notify the Commission in accordance with § 1.946 of this chapter that the station or frequencies authorized have been placed in operation within twelve months from the date of the grant.

(2) For LF, MF, and HF band public coast station licensees, when a new license has been issued or additional operating frequencies have been authorized, if the station or frequencies authorized have not been placed in operation within twelve months from the date of grant, the authorization becomes invalid and must be returned to the Commission for cancellation.

(3) Each AMTS coast station geographic area licensee must make a showing of substantial service within its service area within ten years of the initial license grant, or the authorization becomes invalid and must be returned to the Commission for cancellation. “Substantial” service is defined as service which is sound, favorable, and substantially above a level of mediocre service which just might minimally warrant renewal. For site-based AMTS coast station licensees, when a new license has been issued or additional operating frequencies have been authorized, if the station or frequencies authorized have not been placed in operation within two years from the date of the grant, the authorization becomes invalid and must be returned to the Commission for cancellation.

(b) Public fixed stations. When a new license has been issued or additional operating frequencies have been authorized, the licensee must notify the Commission in accordance with § 1.946 of this chapter that the station or frequencies authorized have been placed in operation within twelve months from the date of the grant.

