(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section each application for a new VHF private coast station license or modification of an existing license to be located in an area having a recognized frequency coordinating committee must be accompanied by:

(1) A report based on a field study, indicating the degree of probable interference to existing stations operating in the same area. The applicant must consider all stations operating on the working frequency or frequencies requested or assigned within 80 km (50 miles) of the proposed station location, and

(2) The report must include a statement that all existing licensees on the frequency within 80 km (50 miles) and the frequency coordinating committee have been notified of the applicant's intention to file an application. The notice of intention to file must provide the licensees concerned and the advisory committee with the following information: The frequency and emission; transmitter location and power; and the antenna height proposed by the applicant.

(b) Applications for modification need not be accompanied by the field study where the modification does not involve any change in frequency(ies), power, emission, antenna height, antenna location or area of operation.

(c)(1) In lieu of the field study, the applicant may acquire a statement from a frequency coordinating committee. The applicant must certify on the application concerning the recommendations of the coordinating committee. The committee must comment on the requested frequency or the proposed changes in the authorized station and give an opinion regarding the probable interference to existing stations. The committee must consider all stations operating on the requested frequency within 80 km (50 miles) of the proposed station location. The frequency coordinating committee statement must also recommend a frequency which will result in the least amount of interference to proposed and existing stations. Committee recommendations may also include comments on technical factors and may recommend restrictions to minimize interference.

(2) A frequency coordinating committee must be representative of all persons who are eligible for VHF private coast stations within the service area of the recognized frequency coordinating committee. A statement of organization, service area and composition of the committee must be submitted to the Commission for approval. The functions of any coordinating committee are purely advisory to the applicant and the Commission. Its recommendations are not binding upon either the applicant or the Commission.

