
                  Alaska—public fixed station. A fixed station in Alaska which is open to public correspondence and is licensed by the Commission for radio communication with Alaska-Private fixed stations on paired channels.


                  Alaska—private fixed station. A fixed station in Alaska which is licensed by the Commission for radio communication within Alaska and with associated ship stations, on single frequency channels. Alaska-private fixed stations are also eligible to communicate with Alaska-public fixed stations on paired channels.


                  Associated ship unit. A portable VHF transmitter for use in the vicinity of the ship station with which it is associated.


                  Automated maritime telecommunications system (AMTS). An automatic maritime communications system.


                  Automated mutual-assistance vessel rescue system (AMVER). An international system, operated by the U.S. Coast Guard, which provides aid to the development and coordination of search and rescue (SAR) efforts. Data is made available to recognized SAR agencies or vessels of any nation for reasons related to marine safety.


                  Automatic Identification Systems (AIS). A maritime navigation safety communications system standardized by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and adopted by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) that provides vessel information, including the vessel's identity, type, position, course, speed, navigational status and other safety-related information automatically to appropriately equipped shore stations, other ships, and aircraft; receives automatically such information from similarly fitted ships; monitors and tracks ships; and exchanges data with shore-based facilities.


                  Bridge-to-bridge station. A radio station located on a ship's navigational bridge or main control station operating on a specified frequency which is used only for navigational communications, in the 156-162 MHz band.


                  Cargo ship safety radio certificate. A certificate issued after a ship passes an inspection of the required radiotelegraph, radiotelephone or GMDSS radio installation. Issuance of this certificate indicates that the vessel complies with the Communications Act and the Safety Convention.


                  Cargo ship safety radiotelegraphy certificate. A certificate issued after a ship passes an inspection of a radiotelegraph installation. Issuance of this certificate indicates that the vessel complies with the Communications Act and the Safety Convention.


                  Cargo ship safety radiotelephony certificate. A certificate issued after a ship passes an inspection of a radiotelephone installation. Issuance of this certificate indicates that the vessel complies with the Communications Act and the Safety Convention.


                  Categories of ships. (1) When referenced in Part II of Title III of the Communications Act or the radio provisions of the Safety Convention, a ship is a passenger ship if it carries or is licensed or certificated to carry more than twelve passengers. A cargo ship is any ship not a passenger ship.

(2) A commercial transport vessel is any ship which is used primarily in commerce (i) for transporting persons or goods to or from any harbor(s) or port(s) or between places within a harbor or port area, or (ii) in connection with the construction, change in construction, servicing, maintenance, repair, loading, unloading, movement, piloting, or salvaging of any other ship or vessel.

(3) The term passenger carrying vessel, when used in reference to Part III, Title III of the Communications Act of the Great Lakes Radio Agreement, means any ship transporting more than six passengers for hire.

(4) Power-driven vessel. Any ship propelled by machinery.

(5) Towing vessel. Any commercial ship engaged in towing another ship astern, alongside or by pushing ahead.

(6) Compulsory ship. Any ship which is required to be equipped with radiotelecommunication equipment in order to comply with the radio or radio-navigation provisions of a treaty or statute to which the vessel is subject.

(7) Voluntary ship. Any ship which is not required by treaty or statute to be equipped with radiotelecommunication equipment.


                  Coast station. A land station in the maritime mobile service.


                  Commercial communications. Communications between coast stations and ship stations aboard commercial transport vessels, or between ship stations aboard commercial transport vessels, which relate directly to the purposes for which the ship is used including the piloting of vessels, movements of vessels, obtaining vessel supplies, and scheduling of repairs.


                  Day. (1) Where the word day is applied to the use of a specific frequency assignment or to a specific authorized transmitter power, its use means transmission on the frequency assignment or with the authorized transmitter power during that period of time included between one hour after local sunrise and one hour before local sunset.

(2) Where the word day occurs in reference to watch requirements, or to equipment testing, its use means the calendar day, from midnight to midnight, local time.


                  Digital selective calling (DSC). A synchronous system developed by the International Telecommunication Union Radiocommunication (ITU-R) Sector, used to establish contact with a station or group of stations automatically by means of radio. The operational and technical characteristics of this system are contained in ITU-R M.493-13 and ITU-R M.541-9 (both incorporated by reference, see § 80.7) (see subpart W of this part.)


                  Direction finder (radio compass). Apparatus capable of receiving radio signals and taking bearings on these signals from which the true bearing and direction of the point of origin may be determined.
                


                  Distress signal. The distress signal is a digital selective call using an internationally recognized distress call format in the bands used for terrestrial communication or an internationally recognized distress message format, in which case it is relayed through space stations, which indicates that a person, ship, aircraft, or other vehicle is threatened by grave and imminent danger and requests immediate assistance.

(1) In radiotelephony, the international distress signal consists of the enunciation of the word “Mayday”, pronounced as the French expression “m'aider”. In case of distress, transmission of this particular signal is intended to ensure recognition of a radiotelephone distress call by stations of any nationality.

(2) For GMDSS, distress alerts result in an audible alarm and visual indication that a ship or person is threatened by grave and imminent danger and requests immediate assistance. These automatic systems contain sufficient information in the distress alert message to identify the vessel, prepare to assist and begin a search. However, except when transmitted via satellite EPIRB, the distress alert is just the initial call for help. Communication between the vessel or person in distress and the Rescue Coordination Center (RCC) or ship assisting should always follow.


                  Distress traffic. Distress traffic consists of all messages relating to the immediate assistance required by a person, ship, aircraft, or other vehicle in distress, including search and rescue communications and on-scene communications.


                  Emergency position indicating radiobeacon (EPIRB) station. A station in the maritime mobile service the emissions of which are intended to facilitate search and rescue operations.


                  Environmental communications. Broadcasts of information about the environmental conditions in which vessels operate, i.e., weather, sea conditions, time signals adequate for practical navigation, notices to mariners, and hazards to navigation.


                  Fleet radio station license. An authorization issued by the Commission for two or more ships having a common owner or operator.


                  Global maritime distress and safety system (GMDSS). An International Maritime Organization (IMO) worldwide coordinated maritime distress system designed to provide the rapid transfer of distress messages from vessels in distress to units best suited for giving or coordinating assistance. The system includes standardized equipment and operational procedures, unique identifers for each station, and the integrated use of frequency bands and radio systems to ensure the transmission and reception of distress and safety calls and messages at short, medium and long ranges.


                  Great Lakes. This term, used in this part in reference to the Great Lakes Radio Agreement, means all of Lakes Ontario, Erie, Huron (including Georgian Bay), Michigan, Superior, their connecting and tributary waters and the St. Lawrence River as far east as the lower exit of the St. Lambert Lock as Montreal in the Province of Quebec, Canada, but does not include any connecting and tributary waters other than: the St. Marys River, the St. Clair River, Lake St. Clair, the Detroit River and the Welland Canal.


                  Harbor or port. Any place to which ships may resort for shelter, or to load or unload passengers or goods, or to obtain fuel, water, or supplies. This term applies to such places whether proclaimed public or not and whether natural or artifical.


                  Inland waters. This term, as used in reference to waters of the United States, its territories and possessions, means waters that lie landward of the boundary lines of inland waters as contained in 33 CFR 80.01, as well as waters within its land territory, such as rivers and lakes, over which the United States exercises sovereignty.


                  INMARSAT. INMARSAT Ltd. is a private commercial company licensed in the United Kingdom.


                  Marine utility station. A station in the maritime mobile service consisting of one or more handheld radiotelephone units licensed under a single authorization. Each unit is capable of operation while being hand-carried by an individual. The station operates under the rules applicable to ship stations when the unit is aboard a vessel, and under the rules applicable to private coast stations when the unit is on land.


                  Maritime control communications. Communications between private coast and ship stations or between ship stations licensed to a state or local governmental entity, which relate directly to the control of boating activities or assistance to ships.


                  Maritime mobile repeater station. A land station at a fixed location established for the automatic retransmission of signals to extend the range of communication of ship and coast stations.


                  Maritime mobile-satellite service. A mobile-satellite service in which mobile earth stations are located on board ships. Survival craft stations and EPIRB stations may also participate in this service.


                  Maritime mobile service. A mobile service between coast stations and ship stations, or between ship stations, or between associated on-board communication stations. Survival craft stations and EPIRB stations also participate in this service.


                  Maritime mobile service identities (MMSI). An international system for the identification of radio stations in the maritime mobile service. The system is comprised of a series of nine digits which are transmitted over the radio path to uniquely identify ship stations, ship earth stations, coast stations, coast earth stations and groups of stations.


                  Maritime radiodetermination service. A maritime radio-communication service for determining the position, velocity, and/or other characteristics of an object, or the obtaining of information relating to these parameters, by the propagation properties of radio waves.


                  Maritime support station. A station on land used in support of the maritime services to train personnel and to demonstrate, test and maintain equipment.


                  Navigable waters. This term, as used in reference to waters of the United States, its territories and possessions, means the waters shoreward of the baseline of its territorial sea and internal waters as contained in 33 CFR 2.36.


                  Navigational communications. Safety communications pertaining to the maneuvering of vessels or the directing of vessel movements. Such communications are primarily for the exchange of information between ship stations and secondarily between ship stations and coast stations.


                  Noncommercial communications. Communication between coast stations and ship stations other than commercial transport ships, or between ship stations aboard other than commercial transport ships which pertain to the needs of the ship.


                  Non-selectable transponder. A transponder whose coded response is displayed on any conventional radar operating in the appropriate band.


                  On-board communication station. A low-powered mobile station in the maritime mobile service intended for use for internal communications on board a ship, or between a ship and its lifeboats and life-rafts during lifeboat drills or operations, or for communication within a group of vessels being towed or pushed, as well as for line handling and mooring instructions.


                  On-board repeater. A radio station that receives and automatically retransmits signals between on-board communication stations.


                  Open sea. The water area of the open coast seaward of the ordinary low-water mark, or seaward of inland waters.


                  Operational fixed station. A fixed station, not open to public correspondence, operated by entities that provide their own radio-communication facilities in the private land mobile, maritime or aviation services.


                  Passenger ship safety certificate. A certificate issued by the Commandant of the Coast Guard after inspection of a passenger ship which complies with the requirements of the Safety Convention.


                  Pilot. Pilot means a Federal pilot required by 46 U.S.C. 764, a state pilot required under the authority of 46 U.S.C. 211, or a registered pilot required by 46 U.S.C. 216.


                  Port operations communications. Communications in or near a port, in locks or in waterways between coast stations and ship stations or between ship stations, which relate to the operational handling, movement and safety of ships and in emergency to the safety of persons.
                


                  Portable ship station. A ship station which includes a single transmitter intended for use upon two or more ships.


                  Private coast station. A coast station, not open to public correspondence, which serves the operational, maritime control and business needs of ships.


                  Public coast station. A coast station that offers radio communication common carrier services to ship radio stations.


                  Public correspondence. Any telecommunication which the offices and stations must, by reason of their being at the disposal of the public, accept for transmission.


                  Radar beacon (RACON). A receiver-transmitter which, when triggered by a radar, automatically returns a distinctive signal which can appear on the display of the triggering radar, providing range, bearing and identification information.


                  Radioprinter operations. Communications by means of a direct printing radiotelegraphy system using any alphanumeric code, within specified bandwidth limitations, which is authorized for use between private coast stations and their associated ship stations on vessels of less than 1600 gross tons.


                  Safety communication. The transmission or reception of distress, alarm, urgency, or safety signals, or any communication preceded by one of these signals, or any form of radio-communication which, if delayed in transmission or reception, may adversely affect the safety of life or property.


                  Safety signal. (1) The safety signal is the international radiotelegraph or radiotelephone signal which indicates that the station sending this signal is preparing to transmit a message concerning the safety of navigation or giving important meteorological warnings.

(2) In radiotelegraphy, the international safety signals consists of three repetitions of the group “TTT,” sent before the call, with the letters of each group and the successive groups clearly separated from each other.

(3) In radiotelephony, the international safety signal consists of three oral repetitions of “Security,” pronounced as the French word “Securite,” sent before the call.

(4) For GMDSS, safety calls result in an audible alarm and visual indication that the station sending this signal has a very urgent message to transmit concerning the safety of navigation or giving important meteorological warnings.


                  Selectable tfransponder. A transponder whose coded response may be inhibited or displayed on a radar on demand by the operator of that radar.


                  Selective calling. A means of calling in which signals are transmitted in accordance with a prearranged code to operate a particular automatic attention device at the station whose attention is sought.


                  Ship earth station. A mobile earth station in the maritime mobile-satellite service located on board ship.


                  Ship or vessel. Ship or vessel includes every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance, except aircraft, capable of being used as a means of transportation on water whether or not it is actually afloat.


                  Ship radio station license. An authorization issued by the Commission to operate a radio station onboard a vessel.


                  Ship station. A mobile station in the maritime mobile service located on-board a vessel which is not permanently moored, other than a survival craft station.


                  Station. One or more transmitters or a combination of transmitters and receivers, including the accessory equipment, necessary at one location for carrying on radio-communication services.


                  Survival craft station. A mobile station in the maritime or aeronautical mobile service intended solely for survival purposes and located on any lifeboat, liferaft or other survival equipment.


                  Underway. A vessel is underway when it is not at anchor, made fast to the shore, or aground.


                  Urgency signal. (1) The urgency signal is the international radiotelegraph or radiotelephone signal which indicates that the calling station has a very urgent message to transmit concerning the safety of a ship, aircraft, or other vehicle, or of some person on board or within sight.

(2) In radiotelegraphy, the international urgency signal consists of three repetitions of the group “XXX,” sent before the call, with the letters of each group and the successive groups clearly separated from each other.

(3) In radiotelephony, the international urgency signal consists of three oral repetitions of the group of words “PAN PAN”, each word of the group pronounced as the French word “PANNE” and sent before the call.

(4) For GMDSS, urgency calls result in an audible alarm and visual indication that the station sending this signal has a very urgent message to transmit concerning the safety of a ship, aircraft, or other vehicle, or of some person on board or within sight.


                  Vessel traffic service (VTS). A U.S. Coast Guard traffic control service for ships in designated water areas to prevent collisions, groundings and environmental harm.


                  Watch. The act of listening on a designated frequency.

