(a) A person engaged in the operation of one or more commercial transport vessels or government vessels may receive maritime mobile service from a private coast station or a marine utility station on shore even though not the licensee of the private coast station or the marine utility station. Restrictions on cooperative arrangements are as follows:

(1) Foreign persons must be the licensees of the radio stations installed on board their vessels.

(2) The licensee of a private coast station or marine utility station on shore may install ship radio stations on board United States commercial transport vessels of other persons. In each case these persons must enter into a written agreement verifying that the ship station licensee has the sole right of control of the ship stations, that the vessel operators must use the ship stations subject to the orders and instructions of the coast station or marine utility station on shore, and that the ship station licensee will have sufficient control of the ship station to enable it to carry out its responsibilities under the ship station license.

(b) Cooperative arrangements are limited concerning cost and charges as follows:

(1) The arrangement must be established on a non-profit, cost-sharing basis by written contract. A copy of the contract must be kept with the station records and made available for inspection by Commission representatives.

(2) Contributions to capital and operating expenses are to be prorated on an equitable basis among all persons who are parties to the cooperative arrangement. Records which reflect the cost of the service and its nonprofit, cost-sharing nature must be maintained by the licensee of the station and made available for inspection by Commission representatives.

