(a) Canada/U.S.A. arrangement. Pursuant to arrangements between the United States and Canada, assignment of VHF frequencies in the band 156-162 MHz to public coast stations in certain areas of Washington state, the Great Lakes and the east coast of the United States must be made in accordance with the provisions of this section.

(b) Definitions. On the west coast, specific terms are defined as follows:

(1) Inland Waters Public Correspondence Sector. A distinct geographical area in which one primary and one supplementary channel is allotted. A number of local channels may also be authorized.

(2) Coastal Waters Public Correspondence Sector. A distinct geographical area in which one primary and one supplementary channel is allotted. Local channels may also be authorized.

(3) Inland waters. Inland waters of western Washington and British Columbia bounded by 47 degrees latitude on the south, the Canada/U.S.A. Coordination Zone Line B on the north, and to the west by 124 degrees 40 minutes longitude at the west entrance to the Strait of Juan de Fuca.

(4) Coastal waters. Waters along the Pacific Coast of Washington state and Vancouver Island within the Canada/U.S.A. Coordination Zone.

(5) Inland Waters Primary Channel. A channel intended to cover the greater portion of an Inland Waters Public Correspondence Sector. It may provide some coverage to an adjacent sector but must not provide coverage beyond the adjacent sector. Harmful interference beyond the adjacent sector must not occur. Only one primary channel will be authorized in any sector.

(6) Inland waters of western Washington and British Columbia bounded by 46°59′59.3″ north latitude on the south, the Canada/U.S.A. Coordination Zone Line B on the south, and to the west by 124°40′4.7″ west latitude at the west entrance to the Strait of Juan de Fuca.
              

(7) Inland Waters Local Channel. A channel designed to provide local coverage of certain bays, inlets and ports where coverage by primary or supplementary channels is poor or where heavy traffic loading warrants. A local channel must not cause harmful interference to any primary or supplementary channels. Coverage must be confined to the designated sector.

(8) Coastal Waters Primary Channel. Same as (5) except for technical characteristics.

(9) Coastal Waters Supplementary Channel. Same as (6) except for technical characteristics.

(10) Coastal Waters Local Channel. Same as (7) except for technical characteristics.

(c) Technical characteristics. On the west coast, technical characteristics of public correspondence stations will be as follows:

(1) Inland Waters Primary and Supplementary Channels. The effective radiated power (ERP) must not exceed 60 watts. Antenna height must not exceed 152 meters (500 feet) above mean sea level (AMSL) with the exceptions noted in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(2) Inland Waters Local Channel. ERP must not exceed 8 watts with an antenna height of no more than 15 meters (50 feet) AMSL or the ERP must not exceed 2 watts with an antenna height of no more than 30 meters (100 feet) AMSL.

(3) Coastal Waters Primary and Supplementary Channels. ERP must not exceed 125 watts with no antenna restrictions.

(4) Coastal Waters Local Channel. ERP must not exceed 10 watts with a maximum antenna height of 76 meters (250 feet) AMSL.

(5) Harmful interference will be determined and resolved using the definition and procedures of the ITU Radio Regulations.

(6) To keep the ERP and antenna elevations at a minimum and to limit coverage to the desired areas, an informal application may be filed for special temporary authority in accordance with §§ 1.41 and 1.931 of this chapter to conduct a field survey to obtain necessary data for informal application. Such data may accompany the application and be used in lieu of theoretical calculations as required in subpart P of this part. The Seattle FCC District Office must be notified in advance of scheduled tests.

(d) Canada/U.S.A. channeling arrangement for West Coast VHF maritime mobile public correspondence. (1) The provisions of the Canada/U.S. channeling arrangement apply to waters of the State of Washington and of the Province of British Columbia within the coordination boundaries of “Arrangement A” of the Canada/U.S.A. Frequency Coordination Agreement above 30 MHz. In addition, all inland waters as far south as Olympia are to be included. A map of these waters is contained in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, Figure 1.

(2) The channeling arrangement applies to the following VHF public correspondence channels: Channels 24, 84, 25, 85, 26, 86, 27, 87 and 28.

(3) Public correspondence stations may be established by either country in accordance with the provisions of the arrangements. However, there must be an exchange of information prior to the establishment of new stations or a change in technical parameters of existing stations. Any channel except that used as primary or supplementary channel in a given sector is available for use as a local channel in that sector. Local channels are not protected from interference caused by primary or supplementary channels in adjacent sectors if these stations are in compliance with this section.

(4) Preliminary local Canadian/U.S. coordination is required for all applications at variance with this section. This coordination will be in accordance with the provisions of Arrangement “A” of the Canada/U.S. Frequency Coordination Agreement over 30 MHz. Stations at variance with the arrangement are not protected from interference and must not cause interference to existing or future stations which are in accordance with the agreement.

(5) The agreed channeling arrangements for the west coast are as follows:

(e) Canada/U.S.A. VHF channeling arrangement on the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence Seaway. Channels on the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence Seaway will be assigned as follows:

(1) The provisions of the arrangement apply to the waters of the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence Seaway within the coordination boundaries of “Arrangement A” of the Canada/U.S.A. Frequency Coordination Agreement above 30 MHz.

(2) The arrangement applies to the following public correspondence channels: Channels 24, 84, 25, 85, 26, 86, 27, 87, 28, and 88.

(3) Canada and the U.S.A. use the following channeling arrangement:
              

(i) Canadian channels: 24, 85, 27, 88 (Note 1).

(ii) U.S.A. channels: 84, 25, 86, 87, 28 (Note 2).

(iii) Shared channels: 26 (Note 3).
              

(f) Canada/U.S.A. channeling arrangement for East Coast VHF maritime mobile public correspondence. For purposes of this section, channels on the east coast will be assigned as follows:

(1) The provisions of the arrangement apply to the Canadian and U.S.A. east coast waters including the St. Lawrence Seaway within the coordination boundaries of “Arrangement A” of the Canada/U.S.A. Frequency Coordination Agreement above 30 MHz.

(2) The arrangement applies to the following public correspondence channels: Channels 24, 84, 25, 85, 26, 86, 27, 87, 28, and 88.

(3) Canada and the U.S.A. use the following channeling arrangement:

(i) Canadian channels: 24, 85, 27, 88 (Note 1).

(ii) U.S.A. channels: 84, 25, 86, 87, 28 (Note 2).

(iii) Shared channel: 26 (Note 3).
              

