(a) Radionavigation coast stations operated to provide information to aid in the movement of any ship are private aids to navigation. Before submitting an application for a radionavigation station, an applicant must obtain written permission from the cognizant Coast Guard District Commander at the area in which the device will be located. The Commission may request an applicant to provide documentation as to this fact. Note: Surveillance radar coast stations do not require U.S. Coast Guard approval.

(b) Coast station transponders (i.e., radar beacons, or racons) operating in the band 2900-3100 or 9300-9500 MHz shall meet the requirements of ITU-R Recommendation M.824-2, “Technical Parameters of Radar Beacons (RACONS),” with Annexes, 1995. Applications for certification of these transponders must include a description of the technical characteristics of the equipment including the scheme of interrogation and the characteristics of the transponder response, and test results demonstrating the device meets each applicable requirement of this ITU-R recommendation. ITU-R Recommendation M.824-2 with Annexes is incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of this standard can be inspected at the Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW, Washington, DC (Reference Information Center) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. The ITU-R Recommendation can be purchased from the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Place des Nations, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland.

(c) The use of ship station transponders in the band 2900-3100 or 9300-9500 MHz other than those described in §§ 80.1065(a)(3) and 80.1095(b) is prohibited.

