(a) The transmitter must be capable of transmission of H3E and J3E emission on 2182 kHz, and J3E emission on 2638 kHz and at least two other frequencies within the band 1605 to 3500 kHz available for ship-to-shore or ship-to-ship communication.

(b) The duty cycle of the transmitter must permit transmission of the international radiotelephone alarm signal.

(c) The transmitter must be capable of transmitting clearly perceptible signals from ship to ship during daytime under normal conditions over a range of 150 nautical miles.

(d) The transmitter complies with the range requirement specified in paragraph (c) of this section if:

(1) The transmitter is capable of being matched to actual ship station transmitting antenna meeting the requirements of ยง 80.863; and

(2) The output power is not less than 60 watts peak envelope power for H3E and J3E emission on the frequency 2182 kHz and for J3E emission on the frequency 2638 kHz into either an artificial antenna consisting of a series network of 10 ohms resistance and 200 picofarads capacitance, or an artificial antenna of 50 ohms nominal impedance. An individual demonstration of the power output capability of the transmitter, with the radiotelephone installation normally installed on board ship, may be required.

(e) The transmitter must provide visual indication whenever the transmitter is supplying power to the antenna.

(f) The transmitter must be protected from excessive currents and voltages.

(g) A durable nameplate must be mounted on the transmitter or made an integral part of it showing clearly the name of the transmitter manufacturer and the type or model of the transmitter.

(h) An artificial antenna must be provided to permit weekly checks of the automatic device for generating the radiotelephone alarm signal on frequencies other than the radiotelephone distress frequency.

