(a) Each control point must be capable of:

(1) Starting and discontinuing operation of the station;

(2) Changing frequencies within the same sub-band;

(3) Changing from transmission to reception and vice versa.

(4) In the case of stations operating in the 156-162 MHz bands, reducing power output to one watt or less in accordance with ยง 80.215(e). 1
                  
                

(b) Each ship station using telegraphy must be capable of changing from telegraph transmission to telegraph reception and vice versa without manual switching.

(c) Each ship station using telephony must be capable of changing from transmission to reception and vice versa within two seconds excluding a change in operating radio channel.

(d) During its hours of service, each ship station must be capable of:

(1) Commencing operation within one minute;

(2) Discontinuing all emission within five seconds after emission is no longer desired.

(e) Each ship station using a multi-channel installation for telegraphy (except equipment intended for use only in emergencies on frequencies below 515 kHz) must be capable of changing from one radio channel to another within:

(1) Five seconds if the channels are within the same sub-band; or

(2) Fifteen seconds if the channels are not within the same sub-band.

(f) Each ship station and marine-utility station using a multi-channel installation for telephony must be capable of changing from one radio channel to another within:

(1) Five seconds within the band 1605-3500 kHz; or

(2) Three seconds within the band 156-162 MHz.

(g)(1) Any telegraphy transmitter constructed since January 1, 1952, that operates in the band 405-525 kHz with an output power in excess of 250 watts must be capable of reducing the output power to 150 watts or less.

(2) The requirement of paragraph (g)(1) of this section does not apply when there is available in the same station a transmitter capable of operation on the international calling frequency 500 kHz and at least one working frequency within the band 405-525 kHz, capable of being energized by a source of power other than an emergency power source and not capable of an output in excess of 100 watts when operated on such frequencies.

