(a) When the main power supply is not on the same deck as the main wheelhouse or at least one deck above the vessel's main deck, a reserve power supply must be provided and must be so situated. The location of the reserve power supply must be located as near to the required transmitter and receivers as practicable and meet all applicable rules and regulations of the United States Coast Guard.

(b) The reserve power supply must be independent of the propelling power of the ship and of any other electrical system, and must simultaneously energize the radiotelephone transmitter at its required antenna power, the required receivers, the emergency light and the automatic radiotelephone alarm signal generator. The reserve power supply must be available at all times.

(c) The reserve power supply may be used to energize the bridge-to-bridge radiotelephone and the VHF radiotelephone installation required by ยง 80.871.

(d) All circuits connected to the reserve power supply must be protected from overloads.

(e) Means must be provided for charging any batteries used as a reserve power supply. A continuous indication of the rate and polarity of the charging current during charging of the batteries must be provided.

(f) The cooling system of each internal combustion engine used as a part of the reserve power supply must be adequately treated to prevent freezing or overheating consistent with the season and route to be traveled by the particular vessel involved.

(g) The reserve power supply must be available within 1 minute.

