(a) If a medium frequency radiotelephone installation is provided, the receiver must be capable of effective reception of J3E emissions, be connected to the antenna system specified by § 80.923, and be preset to, and capable of accurate and convenient selection of, the frequencies 2182 kHz, 2638 kHz, and the receiving frequency(s) of public coast stations serving the area in which the vessel is navigated.

(b) If a single sideband radiotelephone installation is provided, the receiver must be capable of reception of H3E and J3E emissions on 2182 kHz and J3E emission on any receiving frequency authorized pursuant to § 80.909 of this part.

(c) If a very high frequency radiotelephone installation is provided, the receiver used for maintaining the watch required by § 80.303 must be capable of effective reception of G3E emission, be connected to the antenna system specified by § 80.923 and be preset to, and capable of selection of, the frequencies 156.300 MHz, 156.800 MHz, and the receiving frequency(s) of public coast stations serving the area in which the vessel is navigated.

(d) One or more loudspeakers must be provided to permit reception on 2182 kHz or 156.800 MHz at the principal operating position and at any other place where listening is performed.

(e) Any receiver provided as a part of the radiotelephone installation must have a sensitivity of at least 50 microvolts in the case of MF equipment, and 1 microvolt in the case of HF or VHF equipment.

(f) The receiver required in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this section must be capable of efficient operation when energized by the main source of energy. When a reserve source of energy is required pursuant to § 80.905 or § 80.917 of this part, the receiver must also be capable of efficient operation when energized by the reserve source of energy.

(g) The sensitivity of a receiver is the strength in microvolts of a signal, modulated 30 percent at 400 Hertz, required at the receiver input to produce an audio output of 50 milliwatts to the loudspeaker with a signal-to-noise ratio of at least 6 decibels. Evidence of a manufacturer's rating or a demonstration of the sensitivity of a required receiver computed on this basis must be furnished upon request of the Commission.

