(a) 406.0-406.1 ELTs use G1D emission. Except for the spurious emission limits specified in § 87.139(h), 406.0-406.1 MHz ELTs must meet all the technical and performance standards contained in the Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics document titled “Minimum Operational Performance Standards 406 MHz Emergency Locator Transmitters (ELT)” Document No. RTCA/DO-204 dated September 29, 1989. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of this standard can be inspected at the Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC (Reference Information Center) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. Copies of the RTCA standards also may be obtained from the Radio Technical Commission of Aeronautics, One McPherson Square, 1425 K Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005.

(b) The 406.0-406.1 MHz ELT must contain as an integral part a homing beacon operating only on 121.500 MHz that meets all the requirements described in the RTCA Recommended Standards document described in paragraph (a) of this section. The 121.500 MHz homing beacon must have a continuous duty cycle that may be interrupted during the transmission of the 406.0-406.1 MHz signal only.

(c) Prior to verification of a 406.0-406.1 MHz ELT, the ELT must be certified by a test facility recognized by one of the COSPAS/SARSAT Partners that the equipment satisfies the design characteristics associated with the COSPAS/SARSAT document COSPAS/SARSAT 406 MHz Distress Beacon Type Approval Standard (C/S T.007). Additionally, an independent test facility must certify that the ELT complies with the electrical and environmental standards associated with the RTCA Recommended Standards.

(d) The procedures for verification are contained in subpart J of part 2 of this chapter.

(e) An identification code, issued by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the United States Program Manager for the 406.0-406.1 MHz COSPAS/SARSAT satellite system, must be programmed in each ELT unit to establish a unique identification for each ELT station. With each marketable ELT unit the manufacturer or grantee must include a postage pre-paid registration card printed with the ELT identification code addressed to: NOAA/SARSAT Beacon Registration, E/SP3, Federal Building 4, Room 3320, 5200 Auth Road, Suitland, MD 20746-4304. The registration card must request the owner's name, address, telephone, type of aircraft, alternate emergency contact, and other information as required by NOAA. The registration card must also contain information regarding the availability to register the ELT at NOAA's online Web-based registration database at: http://www.beaconregistration.noaa.gov. Further, the following statement must be included: “WARNING “ Failure to register this ELT with NOAA before installation could result in a monetary forfeiture being issued to the owner.”

(f) To enhance protection of life and property, it is mandatory that each 406.0-406.1 MHz ELT must be registered with NOAA before installation and that information be kept up-to-date. In addition to the identification plate or label requirements contained in §§ 2.925 and 2.926 of this chapter, each 406.0-406.1 MHz ELT must be provided on the outside with a clearly discernable permanent plate or label containing the following statement: “The owner of this 406.0-406.1 MHz ELT must register the NOAA identification code contained on this label with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), whose address is: NOAA/SARSAT Beacon Registration, E/SP3, Federal Building 4, Room 3320, 5200 Auth Road, Suitland, MD 20746-4304.” Aircraft owners shall advise NOAA in writing upon change of aircraft or ELT ownership, or any other change in registration information. Fleet operators must notify NOAA upon transfer of ELT to another aircraft outside of the owner's control, or an other change in registration information. NOAA will provide registrants with proof of registration and change of registration postcards.

(g) For 406.0-406.1 MHz ELTs whose identification code can be changed after manufacture, the identification code shown on the plant or label must be easily replaceable using commonly available tools.

