(a) Each transmitter must be installed so that it is not accessible to, or capable of being operated by persons other than those authorized by the licensee.

(b) Each station must be provided with a control point at the location of the transmitting equipment, unless otherwise specifically authorized. Except for aeronautical enroute stations governed by paragraph (e) of this section, a control point is the location at which the radio operator is stationed. It is the position at which the transmitter(s) can immediately be turned off.

(c) Applicants for additional control points at aeronautical advisory (unicom) stations must specify the location of each proposed control point.

(d) Except for aeronautical enroute stations governed by paragraph (f) of this section, the control point must have the following facilities installed:

(1) A device that indicates when the transmitter is radiating or when the transmitter control circuits have been switched on. This requirement does not apply to aircraft stations;

(2) Aurally monitoring of all transmissions originating at dispatch points;

(3) A way to disconnect dispatch points from the transmitter; and

(4) A way to turn off the transmitter.

(e) A dispatch point is an operating position subordinate to the control point. Dispatch points may be installed without authorization from the Commission, and dispatch point operators are not required to be licensed.

(f) In the aeronautical enroute service, the control point for an automatically controlled enroute station is the computer facility which controls the transmitter. Any computer controlled transmitter must be equipped to automatically shut down after 3 minutes of continuous transmission of an unmodulated carrier.

