(a) Certification may be requested by following the procedures in part 2 of this chapter. Aircraft transmitters must meet the requirements over an ambient temperature range of −20 degrees to +50 degrees Celsius.

(b) ELTs manufactured after October 1, 1988, must meet the output power characteristics contained in § 87.141(i) when tested in accordance with the Signal Enhancement Test contained in subpart N, part 2 of this chapter. A report of the measurements must be submitted with each application for certification. ELTs that meet the output power characteristics of the section must have a permanent label prominently displayed on the outer casing state, “Meets FCC Rule for improved satellite detection.” This label, however, must not be placed on the equipment without authorization to do so by the Commission. Application for such authorization may be made either by submission of a new application for certification accompanied by the required fee and all information and test data required by parts 2 and 87 of this chapter or, for ELTs approved prior to October 1, 1988, a letter requesting such authorization, including appropriate test data and a showing that all units produced under the original equipment authorization comply with the requirements of this paragraph without change to the original circuitry.

(c) An applicant for a station license may request certification for an individual transmitter by following the procedure in part 2 of this chapter. Such a transmitter will be individually certified and so noted on the station license.

(d) An applicant for certification of equipment intended for transmission in any of the frequency bands listed in paragraph (d)(3) of this section must notify the FAA of the filing of a certification application. The letter of notification must be mailed to: FAA, Office of Spectrum Policy and Management, ASR-1, 800 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20591 prior to the filing of the application with the Commission.

(1) The notification must describe the equipment, give the manufacturer's identification, antenna characteristics, rated output power, emission type and characteristics, the frequency or frequencies of operation, and essential receiver characteristics if protection is required.

(2) The certification application must include a copy of the notification letter to the FAA. The Commission will not act until it receives the FAA's determination regarding whether it objects to the application for equipment authorization. The FAA should mail its determination to: Office of Engineering and Technology Laboratory, Authorization and Evaluation Division, 7435 Oakland Mills Rd., Columbia, MD 21046. The Commission will consider the FAA determination before taking final action on the application.

(3) The frequency bands are as follows:
              

(e) Verification reports for ELTs capable of operating on the frequency 406.0-406.1 MHz must include sufficient documentation to show that the ELT meets the requirements of § 87.199(a). A letter notifying the FAA of the ELT verification must be mailed to: FAA, Office of Spectrum Policy and Management, ASR-1, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591.

(f) Certification may be requested for equipment that has the capability to transmit in the 138-144 MHz, 148-149.9 MHz, or 150.5-150.8 MHz bands as well as frequency bands set forth in § 87.173. The Commission will only certify this equipment for use in the bands regulated by this part.

