(a) A station at a fixed location in the international aeronautical mobile service must maintain a log in accordance with Annex 10 of the ICAO Convention.

(b) A station log must contain the following information:

(1) The name of the agency operating the station.

(2) The identification of the station.

(3) The date.

(4) The time of opening and closing the station.

(5) The frequencies being guarded and the type of watch (continuous or scheduled) being maintained on each frequency.

(6) Except at intermediate mechanical relay stations where the provisions of this paragraph need not be complied with, a record of each communication showing text of communication, time communications completed, station(s) communicated with, and frequency used.

(7) All distress communications and action thereon.

(8) A brief description of communications conditions and difficulties, including harmful interference. Such entries should include, whenever practicable, the time at which interference was experienced, the character, radio frequency and identification of the interfering signal.

(9) A brief description of interruption to communications due to equipment failure or other troubles, giving the duration of the interruption and action taken.

(10) Such additional information as may be considered by the operator to be of value as part of the record of the stations operations.

(c) Stations maintaining written logs must also enter the signature of each operator, with the time the operator assumes and relinquishes a watch.

