(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (c), (d), (f), and (g) of this section, the carrier frequency of each station must be maintained within these tolerances:

(b) The power shown in paragraph (a) of this section is the peak envelope power for single-sideband transmitters and the mean power for all other transmitters.

(c) For single-sideband transmitters, the tolerance is:

(1) All aeronautical stations on land—10 Hz.

(2) All aircraft stations—20 Hz.

(d) For radar transmitters, except non-pulse signal radio altimeters, the frequency at which maximum emission occurs must be within the authorized frequency band and must not be closer than 1.5/T MHz to the upper and lower limits of the authorized bandwidth, where T is the pulse duration in microseconds.

(e) The Commission may authorize tolerances other than those specified in this section upon a satisfactory showing of need.

(f) The carrier frequency tolerance of transmitters operating in the 1435-1535 MHz and 2310-2390 MHz bands manufactured before January 2, 1985, is 0.003 percent. The carrier frequency tolerance of transmitters operating in the 1435-1535 MHz and 2310-2390 MHz bands manufactured after January 1, 1985, is 0.002 percent. After January 1, 1990, the carrier frequency tolerance of all transmitters operating in the 1435-1535 MHz and 2310-2390 MHz bands is 0.002 percent.

(g) Any aeronautical enroute service transmitter operating in U.S. controlled airspace with 8.33 kHz channel spacing (except equipment being tested by avionics equipment manufacturers and flight test stations prior to delivery to their customers for use outside U.S. controlled airspace) must achieve 0.0005% frequency stability when operating in that mode.

