(a) These frequencies are available for assignment to flight test land and aircraft stations:

(b) These additional frequencies are available for assignment only to flight test stations of aircraft manufacturers:

(c) These frequencies are available for equipment test, emergency and backup use with aircraft beyond the range of VHF propagation. Either H2B, J3E, J7B or J9W emission may be used.

Frequencies (carrier) available kHz:

(d)(1) Frequencies in the bands 1435-1525 MHz and 2360-2395 MHz are assigned in the mobile service primarily for aeronautical telemetry and associated telecommand operations for flight testing of aircraft and missiles, or their major components. The bands 2310-2320 MHz and 2345-2360 MHz are also available for these purposes on a secondary basis. Permissible uses of these bands include telemetry and associated telecommand operations associated with the launching and reentry into the Earth's atmosphere, as well as any incidental orbiting prior to reentry, of objects undergoing flight tests. In the band 1435-1525 MHz, the following frequencies are shared with flight telemetry mobile stations: 1444.5, 1453.5, 1501.5, 1515.5, and 1524.5 MHz. In the band 2360-2395 MHz, the following frequencies may be assigned for telemetry and associated telecommand operations of expendable and re-usable launch vehicles, whether or not such operations involve flight testing: 2364.5, 2370.5 and 2382.5 MHz. In the band 2360-2395 MHz, all other mobile telemetry uses shall not cause harmful interference to, or claim protection from interference from, the above uses.

(2) The authorized bandwidths for stations operating in the bands 1435.0-1525.0 MHz, 1525.0-1535.0 MHz and 2310.0-2390.0 MHz are normally 1, 3 or 5 MHz. Applications for greater bandwidths will be considered in accordance with the provisions of ยง 87.135. Each assignment will be centered on a frequency between 1435.5 MHz and 1534.5 MHz or between 2310.5 MHz and 2389.5 MHz, with 1 MHz channel spacing.

(e) 121.500 MHz: Emergency and distress only.

(f) Frequency assignments for Flight Test VHF Stations may be based on either 8.33 kHz or 25 kHz spacing. Assignable frequencies include the interstitial frequencies 8.33 kHz from the VHF frequencies listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Each 8.33 kHz interstitial frequency is subject to the same eligibility criteria and limitations as the nearest frequency listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

