Other applicable CFR title 47 parts include:

(a) Part 0 contains the Commission's organizations and delegations of authority. Part 0 also lists Commission publications, standards and procedures for access to Commission records and location of Commission monitoring stations.

(b) Part 1 contains rules of practice and procedure for license applications, adjudicatory proceedings, rule making proceedings, procedures for reconsideration and review of the Commission's actions; provisions concerning violation notices and forfeiture proceedings; and the environmental processing requirements that, together with the procedures specified in ยง 17.4(c) of this chapter, if applicable, must be complied with prior to the initiation of construction.

(c) Part 2 contains the Table of Frequency Allocations and special requirements in international regulations, recommendations, agreements, and treaties. This part also contains standards and procedures concerning marketing of radio frequency devices, and for obtaining equipment authorization.

(d) Part 13 contains information and rules for the licensing of commercial radio operators.

(e) Part 17 contains requirements for construction, marking and lighting of antenna towers, and the environmental notification process that must be completed before filing certain antenna structure registration applications.

(f) Part 80 contains rules for the maritime services. Certain maritime frequencies are available for use by aircraft stations for distress and safety, public correspondence and operational communications.

