This section contains rules about the licensing of developmental operations subject to this part.

(a) Showing required. Each application for a developmental license must be accompanied by the following showing:

(1) The applicant has an organized plan of development leading to a specific objective;

(2) A point has been reached in the program where actual transmission by radio is essential;

(3) The program has reasonable promise of substantial contribution to the use of radio;

(4) The program will be conducted by qualified personnel;

(5) The applicant is legally qualified and possesses technical facilities for conduct of the program as proposed;

(6) The public interest, convenience and necessity will be served by the proposed operation.

(b) Signature and statement of understanding. The showing must be signed by the applicant.

(c) Assignable frequencies. Developmental stations may be authorized to use frequencies available for the service and class of station proposed. The number of frequencies assigned will depend upon the specific requirements of the developmental program and the number of frequencies available.

(d) Developmental program. (1) The developmental program as described by the applicant must be substantially followed.

(2) Where some phases of the developmental program are not covered by the general rules of the Commission and the rules in this part, the Commission may specify supplemental or additional requirements or conditions as considered necessary in the public interest, convenience or necessity.

(3) The Commission may, from time to time, require a station engaged in developmental work to conduct special tests which are reasonable and desirable to the authorized developmental program.

(e) Use of developmental stations. (1) Developmental stations must conform to all applicable technical and operating requirements contained in this part, unless a waiver is specifically provided in the station license.

(2) Communication with any station of a country other than the United States is prohibited unless specifically provided in the station license.
              

(3) The operation of a developmental station must not cause harmful interference to stations regularly authorized to use the frequency.

(f) Report of operation required. A report on the results of the developmental program must be filed within 60 days of the expiration of the license. A report must accompany a request for renewal of the license. Matters which the applicant does not wish to disclose publicly may be so labeled; they will be used solely for the Commission's information. However, public disclosure is governed by ยง 0.467 of the Commission's rules. The report must include the following:

(1) Results of operation to date.

(2) Analysis of the results obtained.

(3) Copies of any published reports.

(4) Need for continuation of the program.

(5) Number of hours of operation on each authorized frequency during the term of the license to the date of the report.

