(a) The Plan for the Security Control of Air Traffic and Air Navigation Aids (SCATANA) is promulgated in furtherance of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended, the Communications Act and Executive Order 11490, as amended. SCATANA defines the responsibilities of the Commission for the security control of non-Federal air navigation aids.

(b) Under the responsibilities defined in SCATANA, an FCC Support Plan for the Security Control of Non-Federal Air Navigation Aids has been developed by the Commission. The FCC Support Plan defines responsibilities, procedures, and instructions in consonance with SCATANA which will effect control of non-Federal air navigation aids when SCATANA is implemented. It permits the use of such navigation aids by aircraft of military and civil agencies when SCATANA is implemented. The FCC Support Plan highlights those parts of SCATANA which deal specifically with non-Federal air navigation aids. SCATANA and the FCC Support Plan apply to radionavigation stations authorized by the Commission in the following manner:

(1) All licensees are subject to restrictions imposed by appropriate military authorities pursuant to SCATANA and the FCC Support Plan when an Air Defense Emergency or Defense Emergency exists or is imminent. The restrictions will be imposed through FAA Air Route Traffic Control Centers (ARTCCs).

(2) All licensees of aeronautical radionavigation (VOR/DME, ILS, MLS, LF and MF non-directional beacons) stations will comply with SCATANA implementation instructions from FAA ARTCCs as follows:

(i) Shut down the above navigation aids as directed. These instructions will permit time to land or disperse airborne aircraft, and will permit extension of time when the air traffic situation dictates.
              

(ii) Shut down as soon as possible stations which require more than five minutes control time, unless directed otherwise or unless such stations are essential for the handling of existing air traffic.

(iii) Operate aeronautical radionavigation stations to ensure that required stations, as indicated in flight plans, will be available for authorized aircraft flights.

(3) Licensees of aeronautical radionavigation stations will be notified of the reduction or removal of SCATANA restrictions by FAA ARTCCs when notice of the termination is issued.

(4) Licensees of aeronautical radionavigation stations may voluntarily participate in SCATANA tests as requested by an ARTCC. SCATANA testing must not interrupt the normal service of non-Federal air navigation aids.

