(a)(1) Each application for a new station license, renewal or modification of an existing license concerning flight test frequencies, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, must be accompanied by a statement from a frequency advisory committee. The committee must comment on the frequencies requested or the proposed changes in the authorized station and the probable interference to existing stations. The committee must consider all stations operating on the frequencies requested or assigned within 320 km (200 mi) of the proposed area of operation and all prior coordinations and assignments on the proposed frequency(ies). The committee must also recommend frequencies resulting in the minimum interference. The Committee must coordinate in writing all requests for frequencies or proposed operating changes in the 1435-1535 MHz and 2310-2390 MHz bands with the responsible Government Area Frequency Coordinators listed in the NTIA “Manual of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management.” In addition, committee recommendations may include comments on other technical factors and may contain recommended restrictions which it believes should appear on the license.

(2) The frequency advisory committee must be organized to represent all persons who are eligible for non-Government radio flight test stations. A statement of organization service area and composition of the committee must be submitted to the Commission for approval. The functions of any advisory committee are purely advisory to the applicant and the Commission, and its recommendations are not binding upon either the applicant or the Commission.

(b) These applications need not be accompanied by evidence of frequency coordination:

(1) Any application for modification not involving change in frequency(ies), power, emission, antenna height, antenna location or area of operation.

(2) Any application for 121.5 MHz.

