(a) A 4940-4990 MHz band license gives the licensee authority to operate on any authorized channel in this band within its licensed area of operation. See § 90.1213. A 4940-4990 MHz band license will be issued for the geographic area encompassing the legal jurisdiction of the licensee or, in case of a nongovernmental organization, the legal jurisdiction of the state or local governmental entity supporting the nongovernmental organization.

(b) Subject to § 90.1209, a 4940-4990 MHz band license gives the licensee authority to construct and operate any number of base stations anywhere within the area authorized by the license, except as follows:

(1) A station is required to be individually licensed if:

(i) International agreements require coordination;

(ii) Submission of an environmental assessment is required under § 1.1307 of this chapter; or

(iii) The station would affect areas identified in § 1.924 of this chapter.

(2) Any antenna structure that requires notification to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) must be registered with the Commission prior to construction under § 17.4 of this chapter.

(c) A 4940-4990 MHz band license gives the licensee authority to operate base and mobile units (including portable and handheld units) and operate temporary (1 year or less) fixed stations anywhere within the area authorized by the license. Such licensees may operate base and mobile units and/or temporary fixed stations outside their authorized area to assist public safety operations with the permission of the jurisdiction in which the radio station is to be operated. Base and temporary fixed stations are subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) Permanent fixed point-to-point and point-to-multipoint stations in the 4940-4990 MHz band must be licensed individually on a site-by-site basis. Such fixed stations that connect 4940-4990 MHz band base and mobile stations that are used to deliver broadband service, as well as other public safety networks using spectrum designated for broadband use, are accorded primary status. Primary status is also accorded to stand-alone permanent fixed 4940-4990 MHz band links that are used to deliver broadband service. Primary permanent fixed point-to-point and point-to-multipoint stations must use directional antennas with gains greater than 9 dBi up to 26 dBi. Permanent fixed point-to-point stations that do not meet the criteria for primary status will be authorized only on a secondary, non-interference basis to base, mobile, temporary fixed, and primary permanent fixed operations.

