(a) The Public Safety Broadband Licensee shall comply with all of the applicable requirements set forth in this subpart and shall comply with the terms of the Network Sharing Agreement and such other agreements as the Commission may require or allow.
                                    

(b) The responsibilities of the Public Safety Broadband Licensee shall include the following:

(1) Negotiation of the NSA and such other agreements as the Commission may require or allow with the winning bidder at auction for the Upper 700 MHz D Block license, pursuant to the requirements set forth in ยง 90.1410.

(2) General administration of access to the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands by individual public safety entities, including assessment of usage fees and related frequency coordination duties.

(3) Regular interaction with and promotion of the needs of the public safety entities with respect to access and use of the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands, within the technical and operational confines of the NSA.

(4) Dealings with equipment vendors on its own or in partnership with the Upper 700 MHz D Block licensee, as appropriate, to achieve and pass on the benefits of economies of scale concerning network and subscriber equipment and applications.

(5) Sole authority, which cannot be waived in the NSA, to approve, in consultation with the Upper 700 MHz D Block licensee, equipment and applications for use by public safety entities on the public safety broadband network. State or local entities may seek review of a decision by the Public Safety Broadband Licensee not to permit certain equipment or applications, or particular specifications for equipment or applications, from the Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau.

(6) Coordination of stations operating on 700 MHz public safety broadband spectrum with 700 MHz public safety narrowband stations, including management of the internal public safety guard band.

(7) Oversight and implementation of the relocation of narrowband public safety operations in television channels 63 and 68, and the upper one megahertz of channels 64 and 69.

(8) Exercise of sole discretion, pursuant to ยง 2.103 of this chapter, whether to permit Federal public safety agency use of the public safety broadband spectrum, with any such use subject to the terms and conditions of the NSA.

(9) Review of requests for waiver submitted by public safety entities to conduct wideband operations pursuant to the procedures and restrictions in connection with such waivers as described in ยง 90.1432.

