The transmitting power of stations operating in the 4940-4990 MHz band must not exceed the maximum limits in this section.

(a)(1) The maximum conducted output power should not exceed:

(2) High power devices are also limited to a peak power spectral density of 21 dBm per one MHz. High power devices using channel bandwidths other than those listed above are permitted; however, they are limited to peak power spectral density of 21 dBm/MHz. If transmitting antennas of directional gain greater than 9 dBi are used, both the maximum conducted output power and the peak power spectral density should be reduced by the amount in decibels that the directional gain of the antenna exceeds 9 dBi. However, high power point-to-point and point-to-multipoint operations (both fixed and temporary-fixed rapid deployment) may employ transmitting antennas with directional gain up to 26 dBi without any corresponding reduction in the maximum conducted output power or spectral density. Corresponding reduction in the maximum conducted output power and peak power spectral density should be the amount in decibels that the directional gain of the antenna exceeds 26 dBi.

(b) Low power devices are also limited to a peak power spectral density of 8 dBm per one MHz. Low power devices using channel bandwidths other than those listed above are permitted; however, they are limited to a peak power spectral density of 8 dBm/MHz. If transmitting antennas of directional gain greater than 9 dBi are used, both the maximum conducted output power and the peak power spectral density should be reduced by the amount in decibels that the directional gain of the antenna exceeds 9 dBi.

(c) The maximum conducted output power is measured as a conducted emission over any interval of continuous transmission using instrumentation calibrated in terms of an RMS-equivalent voltage. If the device cannot be connected directly, alternative techniques acceptable to the Commission may be used. The measurement results shall be properly adjusted for any instrument limitations, such as detector response times, limited resolution bandwidth capability when compared to the emission bandwidth, sensitivity, etc., so as to obtain a true maximum conducted output power measurement conforming to the definitions in this paragraph for the emission in question.

(d) The peak power spectral density is measured as conducted emission by direct connection of a calibrated test instrument to the equipment under test. If the device cannot be connected directly, alternative techniques acceptable to the Commission may be used. Measurements are made over a bandwidth of one MHz or the 26 dB emission bandwidth of the device, whichever is less. A resolution bandwidth less than the measurement bandwidth can be used, provided that the measured power is integrated to show total power over the measurement bandwidth. If the resolution bandwidth is approximately equal to the measurement bandwidth, and much less than the emission bandwidth of the equipment under test, the measured results shall be corrected to account for any difference between the resolution bandwidth of the test instrument and its actual noise bandwidth.

(e) The ratio of the peak excursion of the modulation envelope (measured using a peak hold function) to the maximum conducted output power shall not exceed 13 dB across any 1 MHz bandwidth or the emission bandwidth whichever is less.

