(a) To facilitate the shared use of the 4.9 GHz band, each region may submit a plan on guidelines to be used for sharing the spectrum within the region. Any such plan must be submitted to the Commission within 12 months of the effective date of the rules.

(b) Such plans must incorporate the following common elements:

(1) Identification of the document as a plan for sharing the 4.9 GHz band with the region specified along with the names, business addresses, business telephone numbers and organizational affiliations of the chairperson(s) and all members of the planning committee.

(2) A summary of the major elements of the plan and an explanation of how all eligible entities within the region were given an opportunity to participate in the planning process and to have their positions heard and considered fairly.

(3) An explanation of how the plan was coordinated with adjacent regions.

(4) A description of the coordination procedures for both temporary fixed and mobile operations, including but not limited to, mechanisms for incident management protocols, interference avoidance and interoperability.

(c) Regional plans may be modified by submitting a written request, signed by the regional planning committee, to the Chief, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau. The request must contain the full text of the modification, and a certification that all eligible entities had a chance to participate in discussions concerning the modification and that any changes have been coordinated with adjacent regions.

