The Shared Wireless Broadband Network developed by the 700 MHz Public/Private Partnership must be designed to meet requirements associated with a nationwide, public safety broadband network. At a minimum, the network must incorporate the following features:

(a) Design for operation over a broadband technology platform that provides mobile voice, video, and data capability that is seamlessly interoperable across public safety local and state agencies, jurisdictions, and geographic areas, and which includes current and evolving state-of-the-art technologies reasonably made available in the commercial marketplace with features beneficial to the public safety community.

(b) Sufficient signal coverage to ensure reliable operation throughout the service area consistent with typical public safety communications systems.

(c) Sufficient robustness to meet the reliability and performance requirements of public safety.

(d) Sufficient capacity to meet the needs of public safety.

(e) Security and encryption consistent with state-of-the-art technologies.

(f) A mechanism to automatically prioritize public safety communications over commercial uses on a real-time basis consistent with the requirements of ยง 90.1407(c).

(g) Operational capabilities consistent with features and requirements that are typical of current and evolving state-of-the-art public safety systems.

(h) Operational control of the network by the Public Safety Broadband Licensee to the extent necessary to ensure that public safety requirements are met.

