(a) Except as indicated in paragraph (j) of this section, the frequencies which ordinarily may be assigned to stations in the services governed by this part are listed in subparts B, C and F of this part. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this part, frequencies assigned to land mobile stations are available on a shared basis only and will not be assigned for the exclusive use of any licensee.

(b) All applicants and licensees shall cooperate in the selection and use of frequencies in order to reduce interference and make the most effective use of the authorized facilities. Licensees of stations suffering or causing harmful interference are expected to cooperate and resolve this problem by mutually satisfactory arrangements. If the licensees are unable to do so, the Commission may impose restrictions including specifying the transmitter power, antenna height, or area or hours of operation of the stations concerned. Further the use of any frequency at a given geographical location may be denied when, in the judgment of the Commission, its use in that location is not in the public interest; the use of any frequency may be restricted as to specified geographical areas, maximum power, or such other operating conditions, contained in this part or in the station authorization.

(c) Frequencies allocated for Federal Government radio stations under Executive order of the President may be authorized for the use of stations in these services upon appropriate showing by the applicant that such assignment is necessary for inter-communication with government stations or required for coordination with activities of the Federal Government, and where the Commission finds, after consultation with the appropriate government agency or agencies, that such assignment is necessary.

(d) The radio facilities authorized under this part are intended for use in connection with and as an adjunct to the primary governmental or business activities of the licensee.

(e) Persons requesting authority to operate in the band 25-50 MHz should recognize that this band is shared with various services in other countries and that harmful interference may be caused by the propagation of signals in this band from distant stations. No protection from such harmful interference generally can be expected.

(f) Applications for stations in the 150-174 MHz and 421-512 MHz bands for operation on frequencies 15 kHz or less removed from existing stations in the same geographic area will be granted based upon a recommendation from the applicable frequency coordinator as specified in §§ 90.20(c)(2) and 90.35(b)(2).

(g) In the states of Alaska and Hawaii, and in areas outside the continental limits of the United States and the adjacent waters, the frequencies above 150.8 MHz which are listed elsewhere in this part as available for assignment to base stations or mobile stations in the Industrial/Business Pool are also available for assignment to operational fixed stations in the Industrial/Business Pool on a secondary basis.

(h) In the Public Safety Pool, base stations may be authorized to operate on a secondary basis on frequencies below 450 MHz which are available to mobile stations.

(i) In the 450-470 MHz band, the frequencies are ordinarily assigned in pairs, with the mobile station transmit frequency 5 MHz above the paired base station transmit frequency. In the 470-512 MHz band, the frequencies are ordinarily assigned in pairs with the mobile station transmit frequency 3 MHz above the paired base station transmit frequency. In the Industrial/Business Pool, in the 150 MHz band, the frequencies subject to § 90.35(c)(6) may be assigned in pairs with the separation between base and mobile frequencies being 5.26 MHz. A mobile station may be assigned the frequency which would normally be assigned to a base station for single-frequency operation. However, this single-frequency operation may be subject to interference that would not occur to a two-frequency system.

(j) Frequencies other than those listed in subparts B and C of this part may be assigned in the 150-174 MHz, 421-430 MHz, 450-470 MHz, and 470-512 MHz bands, provided the following conditions are met:

(1) Such applications must be accompanied by a showing of frequency coordination in accordance with the requirements of § 90.175;

(2) The frequencies must not be available in any other rule part of this chapter; and

(3) The authorized bandwidth of any system operating in accordance with this paragraph must not overlap spectrum available in other rule parts of this chapter unless that spectrum is also allocated in part 90.

(k) This paragraph is only applicable to entities with Finder's Preference requests pending before the Commission as of July 29, 1998. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this part, any eligible person shall be given a dispositive preference for a channel assignment on an exclusive basis in the 220-222 MHz, 470-512 MHz, and 800/900 MHz (except on frequencies designated exclusively for SMR service) bands by submitting information that leads to the recovery of channels in these bands. Recovery of such channels must result from information provided regarding the failure of existing licensees to comply with the provisions of § 90.155, § 90.157, § 90.629, § 90.631 (e) or (f), or § 90.633 (c) or (d).

(l) In the 150-174 MHz band, except where otherwise specifically provided, authorizations for frequencies that were available prior to August 18, 1995 will be granted with channel bandwidths of 25 kHz or less. Authorizations for all other frequencies in this band will be granted with channel bandwidths of 12.5 kHz or less (i.e., in the Public Safety Pool, frequencies subject to §§ 90.20 (d)(27) and (d)(44), and in the Industrial/Business Pool, frequencies subject to §§ 90.35 (c)(30) and (c)(33)).

(m) In the 421-512 MHz band, except where otherwise specifically provided, authorizations for frequencies that were available prior to August 18, 1995 will be granted with channel bandwidths of 25 kHz or less. New authorizations for frequencies 12.5 kHz removed from these frequencies will be made for channel bandwidths of 12.5 kHz or less (i.e., in the Public Safety Pool, frequencies subject to § 90.20(d)(27) and in the Industrial/Business Pool, frequencies subject to § 90.35(c)(30)). Authorizations for frequencies 6.25 kHz removed from these frequencies will be granted with channel bandwidths of 6.25 kHz or less (i.e., in the Public Safety Pool, frequencies subject to § 90.20(d)(44), and in the Industrial/Business Pool, frequencies subject to § 90.35(c)(33)).

(n) Any recovered channels in the 800 MHz SMR service will revert automatically to the holder of the EA license within which such channels are included. If there is no EA licensee for recovered channels, such channels will be retained by the Commission for future licensing.

