(a) Spectrum use. The Shared Wireless Broadband Network will operate using spectrum associated with the Upper 700 MHz D Block license in the 758-763 MHz and 788-793 MHz bands and the Public Safety Broadband License in the adjacent 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands.

(b) Access to spectrum in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands. The Public Safety Broadband Licensee which holds the Public Safety Broadband License, pursuant to part 90 rules, must lease the spectrum rights associated with this license, pursuant to a spectrum manager leasing arrangement set forth in part 1 subpart X, to the Upper 700 MHz D Block licensee and the Operating Company for the entire remaining term of the Public Safety Broadband License to effectuate the 700 MHz Public/Private Partnership. The Upper 700 MHz D Block licensee and the Operating Company, are the only entities that are eligible to lease the spectrum usage rights associated with the Public Safety Broadband License to operate on the 763-768 and 793-798 MHz bands. If the Upper 700 MHz D Block license is cancelled, this spectrum leasing arrangement will automatically terminate.

(c) Commercial operations in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands. Commercial operations in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands through the spectrum manager leasing arrangement shall not cause harmful interference to primary users (i.e., public safety users) and cannot claim protection from harmful interference from the primary public safety operations in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands. The network providing commercial operations in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands through the spectrum manager leasing arrangement must be designed to automatically assign priority to public safety users, to the exclusion and/or immediate preemption of any commercial use on a dynamic, real-time priority basis, and to guarantee that public safety users suffer no harmful interference or interruption or degradation of service due to commercial operations in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands.

(d) Public Safety Broadband Network Operators must use at least 3GPP TS 23.401, V8.8.0 (2009-12), “3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services and System Aspects; General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) enhancements for Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network (E-UTRAN) access (Release 8),” December, 2009 (incorporated by reference). The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be inspected at the Federal Communications Commission, 445 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20554 or National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741- 6030, or go to: http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html. Copies of the 3GPP Standard E-UTRA Release 8 can be obtained from 3GPP Mobile Competence Centre, c/o ETSI, 650, route des Lucioles, 06921 Sophia-Antipolis Cedex, France, Tel: +33 (0)4 92 94 42 00, Fax: +33 4 93 65 47 16, http://www.3gpp.org. Later versions of this standard may be employed by Public Safety Broadband Network Operators provided they are backwards-compatible with this version.

(e) Systems in the network must support the following interfaces: Uu-LTE air interface; S6a—Visited MME to Home HSS; S8—Visited SGW to Home PGW; S9—Visited PCRF to Home PCRF for dynamic policy arbitration; S10—MME to MME support for Category 1 handover support; X2—eNodeB to eNodeB; S1-u—between eNodeB and SGW; S1-MME—between eNodeB and MME; S5—between SGW and PGW; S6a—between MME and HSS; S11—between MME and SGW; SGi—between PGW and external PDN; Gx—between PGW and PCRF (for QoS policy, filter policy and charging rules); Rx—between PCRF and AF located in a PDN; Gy/Gz—offline/online charging interfaces.

(f) A Public Safety Broadband Network Operator must submit to the Chief of the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau prior to deployment of any Radio Access Network equipment a certification that it will be in compliance with paragraph (e) of this section prior to the date its network achieves service availability.

