(a) Frequencies below 470 MHz. Within one business day of making a frequency recommendation, each frequency coordinator must notify and provide the information indicated in paragraph (g) of this section to all other frequency coordinators who are also certified to coordinate that frequency.

(1) The applicable frequency coordinator for each frequency is specified in the coordinator column of the frequency tables of §§ 90.20(c)(3) and 90.35(b)(3).

(2) For frequencies that do not specify any frequency coordinator, all certified in-pool coordinators must be notified.

(3) For frequencies that are shared between the Public Safety Pool and the Industrial/Business Pool (frequencies subject to §§ 90.20(d)(7), (d)(25), (d)(34), or (d)(46) in the Public Safety Pool, and subject to §§ 90.35(c)(13), (c)(25), or (d)(4) in the Industrial/Business Pool), all certified coordinators of both pools must be notified.

(b) Frequencies in the 470-512 MHz band. Within one business day of making a frequency recommendation, each frequency coordinator must notify and provide the information indicated in paragraph (g) of this section to all other certified frequency coordinators in the Public Safety Pool and the Industrial/Business Pool.

(c) Frequencies in the 769-775/799-805 MHz band. Within one business day of making a frequency recommendation, each frequency coordinator must notify and provide the information indicated in paragraph (g) of this section to all other certified frequency coordinators in the Public Safety Pool.

(d) Frequencies in the 1427-1432 MHz band. Within one business day of making a frequency recommendation, each frequency coordinator must notify and provide the information indicated in paragraph (g) of this section to the WMTS frequency coordinator designated in § 95.113 and to all other frequency coordinators who are also certified to coordinate that frequency.

(e) Each frequency coordinator must also notify all other certified in-pool coordinators on any day that the frequency coordinator does not make any frequency recommendations.

(f) Notification must be made to all coordinators at approximately the same time and can be made using any method that ensures compliance with the one business day requirement.

(g) At a minimum the following information must be included in each notification:

(1) Name of applicant;

(2) Frequency or frequencies recommended;

(3) Antenna locations and heights;

(4) Effective radiated power (ERP);

(5) Type(s) of emissions;

(6) Description of the service area; and

(7) Date and time of recommendation.

(h) Upon request, each coordinator must provide any additional information requested from another certified coordinator regarding a pending recommendation that it has processed but has not yet been granted by the Commission.

(i) It is the responsibility of each coordinator to insure that its frequency recommendations do not conflict with the frequency recommendations of any other frequency coordinator. Should a conflict arise, the affected coordinators are jointly responsible for taking action to resolve the conflict, up to and including notifying the Commission that an application may have to be returned.

