(a) The frequency bands 40.66-40.70 MHz and 216-220 MHz may be used for the tracking of, and the telemetry of scientific data from, ocean buoys and animal wildlife.

(b) Transmitters operating under the provisions of this section are not subject to the technical standards contained in §§ 90.205-90.217. In lieu thereof, the transmitters shall comply with the provisions in this section.

(c) Classes of emission are limited to N0N, A1A, A2A, A2B, F1B, J2B, F2A, F2B, and/or F8E.

(d) The authorized bandwidth shall not exceed 1 kHz.

(e) Frequency stability. (1) For transmitters operating in the 40.66-40.70 MHz frequency band, the frequency stability shall be sufficient to ensure that, at the carrier frequency employed, the sum of the authorized bandwidth plus the bandwidth required for frequency stability are confined within this band.

(2) In the 216-220 MHz frequency band, transmitters shall employ a minimum frequency stability of 0.005 percent (50 parts per million). The carrier frequency shall be selected to ensure that the sum of the authorized bandwidth plus the bandwidth required for frequency stability are confined within this band.

(3) The frequency stability standards shall be met over a temperature range of −30° to +50° centigrade at normal supply voltage and for a variation in the primary supply voltage from 85% to 115% of the rated supply voltage at a temperature of +20 °C. For battery operated equipment, the equipment tests shall be performed using a new battery.

(f) The maximum peak transmitter output (carrier) power shall not exceed 1 milliwatt for airborne wildlife applications, 10 milliwatts for terrestrial wildlife applications or 100 milliwatts for ocean buoys.

(g) Emissions appearing outside of the authorized bandwidth shall be attenuated below the carrier power by at least 26 dB, following the procedures specified in § 90.210(m).

