Fixed operations may, subject to the following conditions, be authorized on a secondary basis for voice, tone or impulse signaling on a licensee's mobile service frequency(ies) above 25 MHz within the area normally covered by the licensee's mobile system. Voice signaling will be permitted only in the Public Safety Pool.

(a) The bandwidth shall not exceed that authorized to the licensee for the primary operations on the frequency concerned.

(b) The output power shall not exceed 30 watts at the remote site.

(c) A1D, A2D, F1D, F2D, G1D and G2D emissions may be authorized. In the Police Radio Service, A3E, F1E, F2E, F3E, G1E, G2E, or G3E emissions may also be authorized.

(d) Except for those systems covered under paragraph (e) of this section, the maximum duration of any non-voice signaling transmission shall not exceed 2 seconds and shall not be repeated more than 3 times. Signaling transmissions may be staggered at any interval or may be continuous. In the Public Safety Pool, the maximum duration of any voice signaling transmission shall not exceed 6 seconds and shall not be repeated more than 3 times.

(e) Until December 31, 1999, for systems in the Public Safety Pool authorized prior to June 20, 1975, and Power and Petroleum licensees as defined in § 90.7 authorized prior to June 1, 1976, the maximum duration of any signaling transmission shall not exceed 6 seconds and shall not be repeated more than 5 times. For Power licensees authorized between June 1, 1976, and August 14, 1989, signaling duration shall not exceed 2 seconds and shall not be repeated more than 5 times. Such systems include existing facilities and additional facilities which may be authorized as a clear and direct expansion of existing facilities. After December 31, 1999, all signaling systems shall be required to comply with the 2 second message duration and 3 message repetition requirements.

(f) Systems employing automatic interrogation shall be limited to non-voice techniques and shall not be activated for this purpose more than 10 seconds out of any 60 second period. This 10 second timeframe includes both transmit and response times.

(g) Automatic means shall be provided to deactivate the transmitter in the event the r.f. carrier remains on for a period in excess of 3 minutes or if a transmission for the same signaling function is repeated consecutively more than five times.

(h) Fixed stations authorized pursuant to the provisions of this section are exempt from the requirements of §§ 90.137(b), 90.425, and 90.429.

(i) Base, mobile, or mobile relay stations may transmit secondary signaling transmissions to receivers at fixed locations subject to the conditions set forth in this section.

(j) Under the provisions of this section, a mobile service frequency may not be used exclusively for secondary signaling.

(k) The use of secondary signaling will not be considered in whole or in part as a justification for authorizing additional frequencies in a licensee's land mobile radio system.

(l) Secondary fixed signaling operations conducted in accordance with the provisions of § 90.317(a) or § 90.637 are exempt from the foregoing provisions of this section.

