Licensees authorized to operate radio systems in the frequency bands above 150 MHz may employ signal boosters at fixed locations in accordance with the following criteria:

(a) The amplified signal is retransmitted only on the exact frequency(ies) of the originating base, fixed, mobile, or portable station(s). The booster will fill in only weak signal areas and cannot extend the system's normal signal coverage area.

(b) Class A narrowband signal boosters must be equipped with automatic gain control circuitry which will limit the total effective radiated power (ERP) of the unit to a maximum of 5 watts under all conditions. Class B broadband signal boosters are limited to 5 watts ERP for each authorized frequency that the booster is designed to amplify.

(c) Class A narrowband boosters must meet the out-of-band emission limits of ยง 90.210 for each narrowband channel that the booster is designed to amplify. Class B broadband signal boosters must meet the emission limits of ยง 90.210 for frequencies outside of the booster's designed passband.

(d) Class B broadband signal boosters are permitted to be used only in confined or indoor areas such as buildings, tunnels, underground areas, etc., or in remote areas, i.e., areas where there is little or no risk of interference to other users.
              

(e) The licensee is given authority to operate signal boosters without separate authorization from the Commission. Certificated equipment must be employed and the licensee must ensure that all applicable rule requirements are met.

(f) Licensees employing either Class A narrowband or Class B broadband signal boosters as defined in ยง 90.7 are responsible for correcting any harmful interference that the equipment may cause to other systems. Normal co-channel transmissions will not be considered as harmful interference. Licensees will be required to resolve interference problems pursuant to ยง 90.173(b).

