(a) The licensee of each station shall employ a suitable procedure to determine that the carrier frequency of each transmitter authorized to operate with an output power in excess of two watts is maintained within the tolerence prescribed in ยง 90.213. This determination shall be made, and the results entered in the station records in accordance with the following:

(1) When the transmitter is initially installed;

(2) When any change is made in the transmitter which may affect the carrier frequency or its stability.

(b) The licensee of each station shall employ a suitable procedure to determine that each transmitter authorized to operate with an output power in excess of two watts does not exceed the maximum figure specified on the current station authorization. On authorizations stating only the input power to the final radiofrequency stage, the maximum permissible output power is 75 percent for frequencies below 25 MHz and 60 percent of the input power for frequencies above 25 MHz. If a non-DC final radiofrequency stage is utilized, then the output power shall not exceed 75 percent of the input power. This determination shall be made, and the results thereof entered into the station records, in accordance with the following:

(1) When the transmitter is initially installed;

(2) When any change is made in the transmitter which may increase the transmitter power input.

(c) The licensee of each station shall employ a suitable procedure to determine that the modulation of each transmitter, which is authorized to operate with an output power in excess of two watts, does not exceed the limits specified in this part. This determination shall be made and the following results entered in the station records, in accordance with the following:

(1) When the transmitter is initially installed;
              

(2) When any change is made in the transmitter which may affect the modulation characteristics.

(d) The determinations required by paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section may, at the opinion of the licensee, be made by a qualified engineering measurement service, in which case the required record entries shall show the name and address of the engineering measurement service as well as the name of the person making the measurements.

(e) In the case of mobile transmitters, the determinations required by paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section may be made at a test or service bench: Provided, That the measurements are made under load conditions equivalent to actual operating conditions; and provided further, that after installation in the mobile unit the transmitter is given a routine check to determine that it is capable of being received satisfactorly by an appropriate receiver.

