(a) The following center frequencies are available for assignment to fixed stations in the Public Safety Pool or the Industrial/Business Pool, subject to the provisions of this section:

(1) The use of these frequencies is limited to transmitting hydrological or meteorological data.

(2) All use of these frequencies is on a secondary basis to Federal Government stations and the hydrological or meteorological data being handled must be made available on request to governmental agencies.

(3) Other provisions of this part notwithstanding, an operational fixed station operating on these frequencies shall not communicate with any station in the mobile service unless written authorization to do so has been obtained from the Commission.

(4) Persons who desire to operate stations on these frequencies should communicate with the Commission for instructions concerning the procedure to be followed in filing formal application.

(5) After May 27, 2005, for the 169-172 MHz band and January 1, 2008 for the 406-416 MHz band, channels for new operations are limited to an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 11.25 kHz. After those dates, existing systems with an authorized bandwidth of greater than 11.25 kHz (including those systems that expand existing operations) may continue to operate with a bandwidth greater than 11.25 kHz until January 1, 2013. Such operations are limited by paragraphs (a)(6) and (a)(7) of this section.

(6) After May 27, 2005, if a licensee of a channel in the band 169-172 MHz which uses equipment with an authorized bandwidth greater than 11.25 kHz cannot resolve an interference complaint to the satisfaction of an impacted Federal agency or is advised to do so by the Hydro Committee as approved by the FCC, then the licensee must cease operation on the frequency upon notification by the Commission.

(7) After January 1, 2008, if a licensee of a channel in the band 406.1-420 MHz which uses equipment with an authorized bandwidth greater than 11.25 kHz cannot resolve an interference complaint to the satisfaction of an impacted Federal agency or is advised to do so by the Hydro Committee as approved by the FCC, then the licensee must cease operation on the frequency upon notification by the Commission.

(8) After May 27, 2005, new assignments on the frequencies 406.125 MHz and 406.175 MHz are to be primarily for paired operations with the frequencies 415.125 MHz and 415.175 MHz, respectively and limited to an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 11.25 kHz when paired.

(9) Existing stations may continue to use the center frequencies 169.575 MHz, 409.675 MHz, 409.725 MHz, and 412.625 MHz until January 1, 2013, subject to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(6) and (a)(7) of this section.

(b) The following frequencies are available for wireless microphone operations to eligibles in this part, subject to the provisions of this paragraph:

(1) The emission bandwidth shall not exceed 54 kHz.

(2) The output power shall not exceed 50 milliwatts.

(3) The frequency stability of wireless microphones shall limit the total emission to within ±32.5 kHz of the assigned frequency.

(4) Wireless microphone operations are unprotected from interference from other licensed operations in the band. If any interference from wireless microphone operation is received by any Government or non-Government operation, the wireless microphone must cease operation on the frequency involved. Applications are subject to Government coordination.

(c) The following center frequencies are available for assignment to licensees engaged in forest firefighting and conservation activities, subject to the provisions of this section:

(1) These frequencies will be assigned on a secondary basis to any U.S. Government station.

(2) The frequencies 170.425 MHz, 170.475 MHz, 170.575 MHz, 171.425 MHz, 171.575 MHz, 172.225 MHz, and 172.275 MHz will be assigned only to licensees directly responsible for the prevention, detection, and suppression of forest fires.

(3) The frequencies 171.475 MHz and 172.275 MHz will be assigned to licensees directly responsible for the prevention, detection, and suppression of forest fires; or to licensees engaged in forest conservation activities for mobile relay operation only.

(4) The frequencies 170.425 MHz, 170.575 MHz, 171.475 MHz, 172.225 MHz, and 172.375 MHz will be assigned for use only in areas west of the Mississippi River.

(5) The frequencies 170.475 MHz, 171.425 MHz, 171.575 MHz, and 172.275 MHz will be assigned for use only in areas east of the Mississippi River.

(6) All applications for use of these frequencies must be accompanied by a letter of concurrence by the United States Department of Agriculture.

(7) After May 27, 2005, channels for new operations are limited to an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 11.25 kHz. Between May 27, 2005, and January 1, 2013, existing systems with an authorized bandwidth of greater than 11.25 kHz (including those systems that expand existing operations) may continue to operate with a bandwidth greater than 11.25 kHz, subject to the limitations set forth in paragraph (c)(8), of this section.

(8) After May 27, 2005, if a licensee that uses equipment with an authorized bandwidth greater than 11.25 kHz cannot resolve an interference complaint from an impacted Federal agency, then the licensee must cease operation on the frequency upon notification by the Commission.

(d) The frequencies 166.250 MHz and 170.150 MHz are available for assignment to licensees engaged in public safety activities, subject to the provisions of this section:

(1) These frequencies are available for assignment to stations in the Public Safety Pool, only at points within 241.4 km. (150 mi.) of New York, N.Y.;

(2) Operations on these channels is on a secondary basis to any Federal station; and

(3) After May 27, 2005, if a licensee that uses equipment with an authorized bandwidth greater than 11.25 kHz cannot resolve an interference complaint from an impacted Federal agency, then the licensee must cease operation on the frequency upon notification by the Commission.

(4) After May 27, 2005, channels for new operations are limited to an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 11.25 kHz. Between May 27, 2005, and January 1, 2013, existing systems with an authorized bandwidth of greater than 11.25 kHz (including those systems that expand existing operations) may continue to operate with a bandwidth greater than 11.25 kHz, subject to the limitations set forth in paragraph (d)(3), of this section.

(e) The following frequencies are available for use by Medical Radiocommunication Systems:

(1) The frequencies 150.775 MHz, 150.790 MHz, and 163.250 MHz, subject to following provisions:

(i) After May 27, 2005, new assignments for these frequencies shall be authorized only for the purpose of delivering or rendering medical services to individuals (medical radiocommunication systems).

(ii) After May 27, 2005, new operations on the frequency 163.250 MHz are limited to an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 11.25 kHz.

(iii) After January 1, 2008, new operations on the frequencies 150.775 MHz and 150.790 MHz are limited to an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 11.25 kHz.

(iv) Existing systems with an authorized bandwidth of greater than 11.25 kHz (including those systems that expand existing operations) may continue to operate on a primary basis with a bandwidth greater than 11.25 kHz until January 1, 2013. After January 1, 2013, stations that use the frequencies 150.775 MHz, 150.790 MHz, or 163.250 MHz shall be limited to an authorized bandwidth not to exceed 11.25 kHz.

(2) The frequency 152.0075 MHz and frequencies within the bands 462.9375-463.1875 MHz and 467.9375 MHz-468.1875 MHz, subject to the limitations specified in § 90.20.

