A mobile station authorized to operate on a mobile service frequency above 25 MHz may be used as a mobile repeater to extend the communications range of hand-carried units subject to the following:

(a) Mobile repeaters and/or associated hand-carried transmitters may be assigned separate base/mobile frequencies for this use in addition to the number of frequencies normally assignable to the licensee.

(b)-(c) [Reserved]

(d) In the Industrial/Business Pool, on frequencies designated with an “LR” in the coordinator column of the frequency table in § 90.35(b)(3), use of mobile repeaters is on a secondary basis to the stations of any other licensee. Hand carried units used in connection with mobile repeaters on frequencies designated with an “LR” in the coordinator column of the frequency table in § 90.35(b)(3) may operate only above 150 MHz and are limited to a maximum output power of six watts. The frequency and maximum power shall be specified in the station authorization.
              

(e) In the Industrial/Business Pool, on frequencies designated with an “LR” in the coordinator column of the frequency table in § 90.35(b)(3), the output power of a mobile repeater station, when transmitting as a repeater station on the frequency used for communication with its associated pack-carried or hand-carried units, shall not exceed 6 watts except when the same frequency is also used by the same station for direct communication with vehicular mobile units or with one or more base stations.

(f) When automatically retransmitting messages originated by or destined for hand-carried units, each mobile station shall activate the mobile transmitter only with a continuous access signal, the absence of which will de-activate the mobile transmitter. The continuous access signal is not required when the mobile unit is equipped with a switch that activates the automatic mode of the mobile unit and an automatic time-delay device that de-activates the transmitter after any uninterrupted transmission period in excess of 3 minutes. For the purposes of this rule section the continuous access signal can be achieved by use of digital or analog methods.

