(a) The use of any particular frequency between 2 and 25 MHz is limited to those frequencies falling within the bands allocated to the fixed and land mobile services as indicated in ยง 2.106 of the Commission's Rules and Regulations.

(b) Only in the following circumstances will authority be extended to stations to operate on the frequencies below 25 MHz:

(1) To provide communications circuits to support operations which are highly important to the national interest and where other means of telecommunication are unavailable;

(2) To provide standby and/or backup communications circuits to regular domestic communications circuits which have been disrupted by disasters and/or emergencies.
                          

(c) No protection is afforded to users of these frequencies from harmful interference caused by foreign operations.

(d) In the event that a complaint of harmful interference resulting from operation of these circuits is received from a foreign source, the offending circuit(s) must cease operation on the particular frequency concerned immediately upon notification by the Commission.

(e) In order to accommodate the situations described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the equipment shall be capable of transmitting and receiving on any frequency within the bands between 2 and 25 MHz and capable of immediate change among the frequencies, provided, however, that this requirement does not apply to equipment manufactured prior to August 15, 1983.

(f) Only 2K80J3E, 100HA1A, 100HA1B and those emission types listed in ยง 90.237(g) are permitted.

(g) Applicants must fulfill eligibility requirements set out in ยง 90.35(c)(1) and submit communications plans pursuant to ยง 90.129(o).

(h) Exercises or circuits tests which require use of these frequencies for more than seven hours per week cumulative are prohibited unless prior written approval is obtained from the Commission.

