(a) Mobile relay operations will be authorized on frequencies below 512 MHz, except in the Radiolocation Service.

(b) Special provisions for mobile relay operations:

(1) In the Public Safety Pool, systems operating on any of the public safety frequencies listed in § 90.20(c) are permitted to be cross-banded for mobile stations operations with mobile relay stations where such stations are authorized.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) In the Industrial/Business Pool, on frequencies designated with an “LR” in the coordinator column of the frequency table in § 90.35(b)(3), mobile relay operation shall be on a secondary basis to other co-channel operations.

(4) Except where specifically precluded, a mobile relay station may be authorized to operate on any frequency available for assignment to base stations.

(5) A mobile station associated with mobile relay station(s) may not be authorized to operate on a frequency below 25 MHz.

(c) Technical requirements for mobile relay stations.

(1) Each new mobile relay station with an output power of more than one watt, and authorized after January 1, 1972, that is activated by signals below 50 MHz shall deactivate the station upon cessation of reception of the activating continuous coded tone signal. Licensees may utilize a combination of digital selection and continuous coded tone control where required to insure selection of only the desired mobile relay station.

(2) Mobile relay stations controlled by signals above 50 MHz or authorized prior to January 1, 1972, to operate below 50 MHz are not required to incorporate coded signal or tone control devices unless the transmitters are consistently activated by undesired signals and cause harmful interference to other licensees. If activation by undesired signals causes harmful interference, the Commission will require the installation of tone control equipment within 90 days of a notice to the licensee.

(3) Except in the Industrial/Business Pool, on frequencies designated with an “LR” in the coordinator column of the frequency table in § 90.35(b)(3), each new mobile-relay station authorized after January 1, 1972, shall be equipped for automatic deactivation of the transmitter within 5 seconds after the signals controlling the station cease.

(4) Except in the Industrial/Business Pool, on frequencies designated with an “LR” in the coordinator column of the frequency table in § 90.35(b)(3), each new mobile-relay station authorized after January 1, 1972, during periods that is not controlled from a manned fixed control point; shall have an automatic time delay or clock device that will deactivate the station not more than 3 minutes after its activation by a mobile unit.

(5) In the Industrial/Business Pool, on frequencies designated with an “LR” in the coordinator column of the frequency table in § 90.35(b)(3), each mobile relay station, regardless of the frequency or frequencies of the signal by which it is activated shall be so designated and installed that it will be deactivated automatically when its associated receiver or receivers are not receiving a signal on the frequency or frequencies which normally activate it.

(6) Multiple mobile relay station radio systems shall use wireline or radio stations on fixed frequencies for any necessary interconnect circuits between the mobile relay stations.

