Control stations associated with land mobile stations under this part shall be authorized to operate subject to the following:

(a) Frequencies for control stations. (1) Control stations may be authorized to operate on frequencies available for use by operational fixed stations.

(2) A control station associated with mobile relay station(s) may, at the option of the applicant, be assigned the frequency of the associated mobile station. In the Industrial/Business Pool, on frequencies designated with an “LR” in the coordinator column of the frequency table in § 90.35(b)(3), such a control station may be assigned any mobile service station frequency available for assignment to mobile stations. Such operation is on a secondary basis to use of the frequency for regular mobile service communications.
              

(3) Control and fixed stations in the Public Safety Pool may be authorized on a temporary basis to operate on frequencies available for base and mobile stations between 152 and 450 MHz, where there is an adequate showing that such operations cannot be conducted on frequencies allocated for assignment to operational fixed stations. Such operation will not be authorized initially or renewed for periods in excess of one year. Any such authorization shall be subject to immediate termination if harmful interference is caused to stations in the mobile service, or if the particular frequency is required for mobile service operations in the area concerned.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) A base station which is used intermittently as a control station for one or more associated mobile relay stations of the same licensee shall operate only on the mobile service frequency assigned to the associated mobile relay station when operating as a base station and on the mobile service frequency assigned to the associated mobile station when operating as a control station. Authority for such dual classification and use must be shown on the station authorization. When operating as a control station, the licensee must meet all control station requirements. In the Industrial/Business Pool, on frequencies designated with an “LR” in the coordinator column of the frequency table in § 90.35(b)(3), base stations used intermittently as control stations shall operate only on a mobile service frequency which is available for assignment to base stations.

