(a) The following frequencies between 450-470 MHz are designated for low-power use subject to the provisions of this section. For purposes of this section these frequencies are referred to as “low power frequencies.” Pairs are shown but single frequencies are available for simplex operations.

(b) Group A1 Frequencies. The Industrial/Business Pool frequencies in Group A1 are available on a coordinated basis, pursuant to §§ 90.35(b)(2) and 90.175(b), as follows:

(1) Group A1 frequencies are available for voice and non-voice operations on a co-primary basis. Base, mobile and operational fixed stations will be authorized on Group A1 frequencies. Fixed stations may be licensed as mobile.

(2) Within 80 kilometers (50 miles) of the specified coordinates of the top 100 urban areas listed in § 90.741 of this chapter (“80 km circles”) only low power operation will be authorized. The coordinates of an operational fixed or base station and the geographic center (latitude and longitude) of a mobile area of operation determine whether a station is within an “80 km circle.”

(i) The maximum ERP for low power operation on Group A1 frequencies is as follows:

(ii) The maximum antenna height for low power fixed stations on Group A1 frequencies will be 23 meters (75 feet) above ground.

(3) Outside the “80 km circles” defined in paragraph (b)(2), full-power operational fixed, base, or mobile stations will be authorized as follows:

(i) Power and antenna height limits are governed by § 90.205 of this chapter;

(ii) For any operational fixed, base or mobile station exceeding the low power or antenna height limits listed in paragraph (b)(2), the 21 dBu F(50,10) contour may not overlap any portion of an “80 km circle;” and,

(iii) Wide area operations will not be permitted. The area of normal day-to-day operations will be described in the application in terms of maximum distance from a geographic center (latitude and longitude).

(4) The Industrial/Business Pool Group A1 Low Power Frequencies are as follows:

(c) Group A2 Frequencies. The Industrial/Business Pool frequencies in Group A2 are available nationwide on a coordinated basis, pursuant §§ 90.35(b)(2) and 90.175(b) as follows:

(1) Group A2 frequencies are available for voice and non-voice operations on a co-primary basis. Base, mobile or operational fixed stations will be authorized on Group A2 frequencies. Fixed stations may be licensed as mobile.

(2) Low power operation will be authorized nationwide on Group A2 frequencies.

(i) The maximum ERP for low power operation on these frequencies is as follows:

(ii) The maximum antenna height for low power fixed stations will be 23 meters (75 feet) above ground.

(3) The Industrial/Business Pool Group A2 Low Power Frequencies are as follows:

(d) Group B Frequencies. The Industrial/Business Pool frequencies in Group B are available nationwide on a coordinated basis, pursuant to §§ 90.35(b)(2) and 90.175(b) as follows:

(1) Group B frequencies are available for non-voice operations on a primary basis. Voice operations will be permitted on a secondary basis. Base, mobile or operational fixed stations will be authorized on Group B frequencies. Fixed stations may be licensed as mobile.

(2) Operation on these frequencies is limited to 6 watts ERP for base, mobile or operational fixed stations and 2 watts ERP for portable units. A maximum antenna height of 7 meters (20 ft) above ground is authorized for fixed stations.

(3) The Industrial/Business Pool Group B Frequencies are as follows:

(e) Group C Frequencies. The Industrial/Business Pool frequencies in Group C are available nationwide for non-coordinated itinerant use as follows.

(1) Group C frequencies are available for voice and non-voice operations on a co-primary basis. Only mobile operations will be authorized on Group C frequencies. Stations may operate at fixed locations for a temporary period of time. No stations operating at a permanent fixed location will be authorized on Group C frequencies.

(2) Operation on these frequencies is limited to 6 watts effective radiated power for fixed or mobile units and 2 watts ERP for portable units. Stations operating at fixed locations for a temporary period of time will be limited to an antenna height of 7 meters (20 feet) above ground.

(3) The Industrial/Business Pool Group C Low Power Frequencies are as follows:

(f) Group D Frequencies. The Industrial/Business Pool frequencies in Group D are available for central station alarm operations on a coordinated basis, pursuant to §§ 90.35(b)(2) and 90.175(b).

(1) Base, mobile or operational fixed stations will be authorized on Group D frequencies. Fixed stations may be licensed as mobile.
                          

(2) Group D frequencies subject to § 90.35(c)(63) are limited to central station alarm use within the urban areas described in § 90.35(c)(63). Outside the urban areas described in § 90.35(c)(63), Group D frequencies subject to § 90.35(c)(63) are available for general Industrial/Business use on a coordinated basis, pursuant to §§ 90.35(b)(2) and 90.175(b).

(3) Group D frequencies subject to § 90.35(c)(66) are limited to central station alarm use nationwide.

(4) Operation on Group D frequencies is limited to 2 watts output power for mobile, base or operational fixed stations. Fixed stations used for central station alarm operations may utilize antennas mounted not more than 7 meters (20 feet) above a man-made supporting structure, including antenna structure.

(5) The Industrial/Business Pool Group D Low Power Frequencies are as follows:

(g) Low Power Public Safety Frequencies. The frequencies in the Public Safety Pool Low Power Group are available nationwide on a coordinated basis, pursuant to §§ 90.20(c)(2) and 90.175(b).

(1) Base, mobile or operational fixed stations will be authorized on Public Safety Low Power frequencies. Fixed stations may be licensed as mobile.

(2) Operation on these frequencies is limited to 6 watts effective radiated power for base, mobile or operational fixed stations and 2 watts ERP for portable units. A maximum antenna height of 7 meters (20 feet) above ground is authorized for fixed stations.

(3) The Public Safety Pool Low Power Frequencies are as follows:

(h) Unless otherwise noted, the following conditions apply to all low power frequencies:

(1) Except for itinerant operations on Group C, wide area operations will not be authorized. The area of normal day-to-day operations will be described in the application in terms of maximum distance from a geographic center (latitude and longitude).

(2) A hospital or health care institution holding a license to operate a radio station under this part may operate a medical radio telemetry device with an output power not to exceed 20 milliwatts without specific authorization from the Commission. All licensees operating under this authority must comply with the requirements and limitations set forth in this section.

(3) No limit shall be placed on the length or height above ground level of any commercially manufactured radiating transmission line when the transmission line is terminated in a non-radiating load and is routed at least 7 meters (20 feet) interior to the edge of any structure or is routed below ground level.

(4) Sea-based stations may utilize antennas mounted not more than 7 meters (20 feet) above a man-made supporting structure, including antenna structures.

(5) Continuous carrier operations are prohibited on these frequencies.

(6) Unless specified elsewhere in this part, licensees as of August 5, 1999, licensed for operations with an emission designator wider than 11.25 kHz on low power frequencies that are subject to an authorized bandwidth of 11.25 kHz, may obtain primary status with respect to co-channel licensees by supplying their coordinates to the Commission. These licensees will continue to operate on a secondary basis with respect to adjacent channel licensees. Additionally, these licensees may continue to operate with an authorized bandwidth wider than 11.25 kHz on such low power frequencies, subject to the provisions of § 90.209(b) of this chapter.

(7) Unless specified elsewhere in this part, licensees as of August 5, 1999, licensed for operations with an emission designator wider than 11.25 kHz on frequencies that are subject to an authorized bandwidth of 11.25 kHz, which are not low power frequencies, may obtain primary status with respect to co-channel licensees by modifying their license to low power frequencies, supplying their coordinates to the Commission, and otherwise complying with the conditions of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section. These licensees will continue to operate on a secondary basis with respect to adjacent channel licensees. Additionally, these licensees may continue to operate with an authorized bandwidth wider than 11.25 kHz on such low power frequencies, subject to the provisions of § 90.209(b) of this chapter.

(8) Applicants proposing to operate with an authorized bandwidth wider than 11.25 kHz, on low power frequencies that are subject to an authorized bandwidth of 11.25 kHz, may be licensed on a secondary, non-interference basis. Such applicants are subject to the conditions of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section and the provisions of § 90.209(b) of this chapter.

