These provisions authorize the licensing of systems in the Location and Monitoring Service (LMS). LMS systems utilize non-voice radio techniques to determine the location and status of mobile radio units. LMS licensees authorized to operate a system in the 902-928 MHz band may serve individuals, federal government agencies, and entities eligible for licensing in this part 90.

(a) Each application to license an LMS system shall include the following supplemental information:

(1) A detailed description of the manner in which the system will operate, including a map or diagram.

(2) The necessary or occupied bandwidth of emission, whichever is greater.

(3) The data transmission characteristics as follows:

(i) The vehicle location update rates;

(ii) Specific transmitter modulation techniques used;

(iii) For codes and timing scheme: A table of bit sequences and their alphanumeric or indicator equivalents, and a statement of bit rise time, bit transmission rates, bit duration, and interval between bits;

(iv) A statement of amplitude-versus-time of the interrogation and reply formats, and an example of a typical message transmission and any synchronizing pulses utilized.

(4) A plan to show the implementation schedule during the initial license term.

(b) LMS stations are exempted from the identification requirements of ยง 90.425; however, the Commission may impose automatic station identification requirements when determined to be necessary for monitoring and enforcement purposes.

