(a) Eligibility. (1) Party seeking approval for partitioning and disaggregation shall request an authorization pursuant to § 1.948 of this chapter.

(2) Multilateration LMS licensees may apply to partition their licensed geographic service area or disaggregate their licensed spectrum at any time following the grant of their licenses. Multilateration LMS licensees may partition or disaggregate to any party that is also eligible to be a multilateration LMS licensee. Partitioning is permitted along any service area defined by the parties, and spectrum may be disaggregated in any amount. The Commission will also consider requests for partial assignment of licenses that propose combinations of partitioning and disaggregation.

(b) Partitioning. In the case of partitioning, applicants and licensees must file FCC Form 603 pursuant to § 1.948 and list the partitioned service area on a schedule to the application. The geographic coordinates must be specified in degrees, minutes, and seconds to the nearest second of latitude and longitude and must be based upon the 1983 North American Datum (NAD83).

(c) License term. The license term for a partitioned license area, and for disaggregated spectrum shall be the remainder of the original licensee's license term.

(d) Construction requirements—(1) Requirements for partitioning. (i) Parties seeking authority to partition must meet one of the following construction requirements:

(A) The partitionee may certify that it will satisfy the applicable construction requirements for the partitioned license area; or

(B) The original licensee may certify that it has or will meet the construction requirement for the entire license area.

(ii) Failure by any partitionee to meet its respective construction requirements will result in the automatic cancellation of the partitioned or disaggregated license without further Commission action.

(2) Requirements for disaggregation. Parties seeking authority to disaggregate spectrum must certify in FCC Form 601 which of the parties will be responsible for meeting the five-year and ten-year construction requirements for the particular market.

