LMS systems may be authorized within the 902-928 MHz band, subject to the conditions in this section. LMS licensees are required to maintain whatever records are necessary to demonstrate compliance with these provisions and must make these records available to the Commission upon request:

(a) LMS operations will not cause interference to and must tolerate interference from industrial, scientific, and medical (ISM) devices and radiolocation Government stations that operate in the 902-928 MHz band.

(b) LMS systems are authorized to transmit status and instructional messages, either voice or non-voice, so long as they are related to the location or monitoring functions of the system.

(c) LMS systems may utilize store and forward interconnection, where either transmissions from a vehicle or object being monitored are stored by the LMS provider for later transmission over the public switched network (PSN), or transmissions received by the LMS provider from the PSN are stored for later transmission to the vehicle or object being monitored. Real-time interconnection between vehicles or objects being monitored and the PSN will only be permitted to enable emergency communications related to a vehicle or a passenger in a vehicle. Such real-time, interconnected communications may only be sent to or received from a system dispatch point or entities eligible in the Public Safety or Special Emergency Radio Services. See subparts B and C of this part.

(d) Multilateration LMS systems will be authorized on a primary basis within the bands 904-909.75 MHz and 921.75-927.25 MHz. Additionally, multilateration and non-multilateration systems will share the 919.75-921.75 MHz band on a co-equal basis. Licensing will be on the basis of Economic Areas (EAs) for multilateration systems, with one exclusive EA license being issued for each of these three sub-bands. Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, multilateration EA licensees may be authorized to operate on only one of the three multilateration bands within a given EA. Additionally, EA multilateration LMS licenses will be conditioned upon the licensee's ability to demonstrate through actual field tests that their systems do not cause unacceptable levels of interference to 47 CFR part 15 devices.

(e) Multilateration EA-licensed systems and grandfathered automatic vehicle monitoring service (AVM) systems (see ยง 90.363) are authorized on a shared basis and must cooperate in the selection and use of frequencies in accordance with ยง 90.173(b).

(f) Multilateration EA licensees may be authorized to operate on both the 919.75-921.75 MHz and 921.75-927.75 MHz bands within a given EA (see ยง 90.209(b)(5)).

(g) Multilateration LMS systems whose primary operations involve the provision of vehicle location services, may provide non-vehicular location services.

(h) Non-multilateration stations are authorized to operate on a shared, non-exclusive basis in the 902-904 MHz and 909.75-921.75 MHz sub-bands. Non-multilateration systems and multilateration systems will share the 919.75-921.75 MHz band on a co-equal basis. Non-multilateration LMS systems may not provide non-vehicular location services. The maximum antenna height above ground for non-multilateration LMS systems is 15 meters.

(i) Non-multilateration LMS licenses will be issued on a site-by-site basis, except that municipalities or other governmental operatives may file jointly for a non-multilateration license covering a given U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis Economic Area (EA). Such an application must identify all planned sites. After receiving the license, the non-multilateration EA licensee must notify the Commission if sites are deleted or if new sites are added, before those sites may be put into operation.

