(a) Except as provided for in § 90.315 and except for those frequencies allocated to services in part 22 of this chapter (see §§ 22.591, 22.621, 22.651, and 22.1007 of this chapter) the following frequencies in the band 470-512 MHz may be assigned as indicated in the table below. The first and last assignable frequencies are shown. Assignable frequencies occur in increments of 6.25 kHz. The separation between base and mobile transmit frequencies is 3 MHz for two frequency operation.

(1) Channel availability in the General Access Pool in any of the urbanized areas referred to in the table depends on whether that channel is presently assigned to one of the following categories of users:

(i) Public safety (as defined in § 90.20(a));

(ii) Power and telephone maintenance licensees (as defined in § 90.7);

(iii) Special industrial licensees (as defined in § 90.7);

(iv) Business licensees (as defined in § 90.35(a));

(v) Petroleum, forest products, and manufacturers licensees (as defined in § 90.7);

(vi) Railroad, motor carrier, and automobile emergency licensees (as defined in § 90.7); and

(vii) Taxicab licensees (as defined in § 90.7).

(2) If assigned, subsequent authorizations will only be granted to users from the same category. If unassigned, or should a channel subsequently become unassigned, it will be treated as available in the General Access Pool.

(3) Normally, each channel should be substantially loaded in accordance with the standards set out in § 90.313.

(4) The following frequencies will be authorized a maximum bandwidth of 6 kHz.

(b) [Reserved]

