(a) Subject to specific prohibition or restriction by rule provisions governing the radio service in which a licensee's radio system is authorized, paging operations are permitted:

(1) Where the signals and messages are transmitted by a control operator of the licensee stationed at a licensed control point in the licensee's system of communication.

(2) Where the signals and messages are transmitted from an operating position within an internal system of communication which meets the tests of §§ 90.471 through 90.475.

(3) Where the signals and messages are transmitted from a dispatch point within the licensee's system of communication, as defined as § 90.7.

(b) Systems employing dial-up circuits (§ 90.461(c)) may be used in one-way paging operations, but only where the paging signals are transmitted as provided at paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(c) Paging may be initiated directly from telephone positions in the public switched telephone network. When land stations are multiple licensed or otherwise shared by authorized users, arrangements for the telephone service must be made with a duly authorized carrier by users, licensees, or their authorized agents on a non-profit, cost-shared basis. When telephone service costs are shared, at least one licensee participating in the cost sharing arrangements must maintain cost sharing records and the costs must be distributed at least once a year. Licensees, users, or their authorized agents may also make joint use arrangements with a duly authorized carrier and arrange that each licensee or user pay the carrier directly for the licensee's or user's share of the joint use of the shared telephone service. A report of the cost distribution must be placed in the licensee's station records and made available to participants in the sharing arrangement and the Commission upon request. In all cases, arrangements with the duly authorized carrier must disclose the number of licensees and users and the nature of the use.

