Interconnection may be accomplished by commercial mobile service providers licensed under this part by any technically feasible means. Interconnection may be accomplished by private mobile service providers either manually or automatically under the supervision and control of a transmitter control operator at a fixed position in the authorized system of communications or it may be accomplished under the supervision and control of mobile operators, and is subject to the following provisions:

(a) Where a system is interconnected manually at a fixed control point, the control point operator must maintain the capability to turn the carrier of the transmitter off or to de-activate the system completely when circumstances warrant such action.

(b) When the system is interconnected automatically it may be supervised at the control point or in mobile units.

(1) For control point supervision, the following is required:
                            

(i) The control point operator must maintain the capability to turn the carrier of the transmitter off or to de-activate the system completely when circumstances warrant such action.

(ii) When a frequency is shared by more than one system, automatic monitoring equipment must be installed at the base station to prevent activation of the transmitter when signals of co-channel stations are present and activation would interfere with communications in progress. Licensees may operate without the monitoring equipment if they have obtained the consent of all co-channel licensees located within a 120 kilometer (75 mile) radius of the interconnected base station transmitter. A statement must be submitted to the Commission indicating that all co-channel licensees have consented to operate without the monitoring equipment. If a licensee has agreed that the use of monitoring equipment is not necessary, but later decides that the monitoring equipment is necessary, the licensee may request that the co-channel licensees reconsider the use of monitoring equipment. If the licensee cannot reach an agreement with co-channel licensees, the licensee may request that the Commission consider the matter and assign it to another channel. If a new licensee is assigned to a frequency where all the co-channel licensees have agreed that the use of monitoring equipment is not necessary, and the new licensee does not agree, the new licensee may request the co-channel licensees to reconsider the use of monitoring equipment. If the new licensee cannot reach an agreement with co-channel licensees, it should request a new channel from the Commission. Systems on frequencies above 800 MHz are exempt from this requirement.

(2) For mobile unit supervision, the following is required:

(i) When a frequency is shared by more than one system, automatic monitoring equipment must be installed at the base station to prevent activation of the transmitter when signals of co-channel stations are present and activation would interfere with communications in progress. Licensees may operate without this equipment if they have obtained the consent of all co-channel licensees located within a 120 kilometer (75 mile) radius of the interconnected base station transmitter. A statement must be submitted to the Commission indicating that all co-channel licensees have consented to operate without the monitoring equipment. If a licensee has agreed that the use of monitoring equipment is not necessary, but later decides that the monitoring equipment is necessary, the licensee may request that the co-channel licensees reconsider the use of monitoring equipment. If the licensee cannot reach an agreement with co-channel licensees, the licensee may request that the Commission consider the matter and assign it to another channel. If a new licensee is assigned to a frequency where all the co-channel licensees have agreed that the use of monitoring equipment is not necessary, and the new licensee does not agree, the new licensee may request the co-channel licensees to reconsider the use of monitoring equipment. If the new licensee cannot reach an agreement with co-channel licensees, it should request a new channel from the Commission. Systems on frequencies above 800 MHz are exempt from this requirement.

(ii) Initial access points within the public switched telephone network must be limited to transmission of a 3-second tone, after which time the transmitter shall close down. No additional signals may be transmitted until acknowledgement from a mobile station of the licensee is received. Licensees are exempt from this requirement if they have obtained the consent of all co-channel licensees located within a 120 kilometer (75 mile) radius of the interconnected base station transmitter. However, licensees may choose to set their own time limitations. A statement must be submitted to the Commission indicating that all co-channel licensees have consented to operate without the monitoring equipment. If a licensee has agreed that the use of monitoring equipment is not necessary, but later decides that the monitoring equipment is necessary, the licensee may request that the co-channel licensees reconsider the use of monitoring equipment. If the licensee cannot reach an agreement with co-channel licensees, the licensee may request that the Commission consider the matter and assign it to another channel. If a new licensee is assigned to a frequency where all the co-channel licensees have agreed that the use of monitoring equipment is not necessary, and the new licensee does not agree, the new licensee may request the co-channel licensees to reconsider the use of monitoring equipment. If the new licensee cannot reach an agreement with co-channel licensees, it should request a new channel from the Commission. Systems on frequencies above 800 MHz are exempt from this requirement.

(c) In single frequency systems, equipment must be installed at the base station which will limit any single transmission from within the public switched telephone network to 30 seconds duration and which in turn will activate the base station receiver to monitor the frequency for a period of not less than three (3) seconds. The mobile station must be capable of terminating the communications during the three (3) seconds. Licensees are exempt from this requirement if they have obtained the consent of all co-channel licensees located within a 120 km (75 mile) radius of the interconnected base station transmitter. However, licensees may choose to set their own time limitations. A statement must be submitted to the Commission indicating that all co-channel licensees have consented to operate without the monitoring equipment. If a licensee has agreed that the use of monitoring equipment is not necessary, but later decides that the monitoring equipment is necessary, the licensee may request that the co-channel licensees reconsider the use of monitoring equipment. If the licensee cannot reach an agreement with co-channel licensees, the licensee may request that the Commission consider the matter and assign it another channel. If a new licensee is assigned to a frequency where all the co-channel licensees have agreed that the use of monitoring equipment. If the new licensee cannot reach an agreement with co-channel licensees, it should request a new channel from the Commission.

(d) A timer must be installed at the base station transmitter which limits communications to three (3) minutes. After three (3) minutes, the system must close down, with all circuits between the base station and the public switch telephone network disconnected. This provision does not apply to systems which establish eligibility pursuant to §§ 90.20(a)(1)(i), 90.20(a)(1)(ii), and 90.20(a)(2), except §§ 90.20(a)(2)(i) and 90.20(a)(2)(ii), or who are Power, Petroleum, or Railroad licensees (as defined in § 90.7), or to systems above 800 MHz. All systems must be equipped with a timer that closes down the transmitter within three minutes of the last transmission. Licensees may operate without these requirements if they have obtained the consent of all co-channel licensees located within a 120 km (75 mile) radius of the interconnected base station transmitter. However, licensees may choose to set their own time limitations. A statement must be submitted to the Commission indicating that all co-channel licensees have consented to operate without the monitoring equipment. If a licensee has agreed that the use of monitoring equipment is not necessary, but later decides that the monitoring equipment is necessary, the licensee may request that the co-channel licensees reconsider the use of monitoring equipment. If the licensee cannot reach an agreement with co-channel licensees, the licensee may request that the Commission consider the matter and assign it to another channel. If a new licensee is assigned to a frequency where all the co-channel licensees have agreed that the use of monitoring equipment is not necessary, and the new licensee does not agree, the new licensee may request the co-channel licensees to reconsider the use of monitoring equipment. If the new licensee cannot reach an agreement with co-channel licensees, it should request a new channel from the Commission.

