(a) Control point required. Unless permitted to be operated on an unattended basis, each station shall be provided with a control point;

(b) A control point is an operating position:

(1) Which must be under the control and supervision of the licensee;

(2) Where a person immediately responsible for the operation of the transmitter is stationed;

(3) Where the monitoring facilities required by this part are installed.

(c) Control point location. The location of the control point will be specified in the station license and will be assumed to be the same as that of the transmitting equipment unless an application for a different location has been approved by the Commission.

(d) Control point facilities required. At each control point, the following facilities shall be installed:

(1) A carrier-operated device which will provide continuous visual indication when the transmitter is radiating, or, a pilot lamp or meter which will provide continuous visual indication when the transmitter circuits have been placed in a condition to produce radiation. The provisions of this subparagraph shall not apply to hand-carried transmitters or transmitters installed on motorcycles. The control point for a transmitter utilized to activate another radio station may employ a single pilot lamp or meter as an indication of the activation of local and remote transmitters.

(2) Facilities which will permit the person responsible for the operation of the transmitter either to disconnect the dispatch point circuits from the transmitter or to render the transmitter inoperative from any dispatch point under his supervision; and

(3) Facilities which will permit the person responsible for the operation of the transmitter to turn the transmitter carrier on and off at will.

(e) Dispatch point. A dispatch point is any position from which messages may be transmitted under the supervision of the person at a control point who is responsible for the operation of the transmitter. Dispatch points may be installed without authorization from the Commission.

