(a) Applicants for new land stations to be interconnected with the public switched telephone network must indicate on their applications (class of station code) that their stations will be interconnected. Licensees of land stations that are not interconnected may interconnect their stations with the public switched telephone network only after modifying their license. See § 1.929 of this chapter. In all cases a detailed description of how interconnection is accomplished must be maintained by licensees as part of their station records. See § 90.433 of this part.

(b) In the frequency ranges 806-824 MHz, 851-869 MHz, 896-901 MHz, and 935-940 MHz, interconnection with the public switched telephone network is authorized under the following conditions:

(1) Interconnected operation is on a secondary basis to dispatch operation. This restriction will not apply to trunked systems or on any channel assigned exclusively to one licensee.

(2) Interconnection may be accomplished at any location through a separate or shared interconnection device. When land stations subject to this part are multiple licensed or shared by authorized users, arrangements for telephone service must be made with a duly authorized carrier by users, licensees, or their authorized agents on a non-profit cost sharing basis. When telephone service costs are shared, at least one licensee participating in the cost sharing arrangement must maintain cost sharing records and the costs must be distributed at least once a year. Licensees, users, or their authorized agents may also make joint use arrangements with a duly authorized carrier and arrange that each licensee or user pay the carrier directly for the licensee's or user's share of the joint use of the shared telephone service. A report of the cost distribution must be placed in the licensee's station records and made available to participants in the sharing and the Commission upon request. In all cases, arrangements with the duly authorized carrier must disclose the number of licensees and users and the nature of the use.

(c) Interconnection of facilities in the Radiolocation Service (subpart F) will not be permitted.

(d) In the frequency ranges below 800 MHz, interconnection with the public switched telephone network is authorized under the following conditions:

(1) Interconnected operation is on a secondary basis to dispatch operation. This restriction will not apply to trunked systems or on any channel assigned exclusively to one licensee.

(2) Interconnection may be accomplished at any location through a separate or shared interconnection device. When land stations subject to this part are multiple licensed or shared by authorized users, arrangements for telephone service must be made with a duly authorized carrier by users, licensees, or their authorized agents on a non-profit cost sharing basis. When telephone service costs are shared, at least one licensee participating in the cost sharing arrangement must maintain cost sharing records and the costs must be distributed at least once a year. Licensees, users, or their authorized agents may also make joint use arrangements with a duly authorized carrier and arrange that each licensee or user pay the carrier directly for the licensee's or user's share of the joint use of the shared telephone service. A report of the cost distribution must be placed in the licensee's station records and made available to participants in the sharing and the Commission upon request. In all cases, arrangements with the duly authorized carrier must disclose the number of licensees and users and the nature of the use.

(3) For licensees in the Industrial/Business Pool and those licensees who establish eligibility pursuant to § 90.20(a)(2) of this part, except for §§ 90.20(a)(2)(i) and 90.20(a)(2)(ii) of this part and medical emergency systems in the 450-470 MHz band, interconnection will be permitted only where the base station site or sites proposed stations are located 120 km (75 mi.) or more from the designated centers of the urbanized areas listed below. If these licensees seek to connect within 120 km (75 mi.) of the 25 cities, they must obtain the consent of all co-channel licensees located both within 120 km (75 mi.) of the center of the city; and within 120 km (75 mi.) of the interconnected base station transmitter. The consensual agreements among the co-channel licensees must specifically state the terms agreed upon and a statement must be submitted to the Commission indicating that all co-channel licensees have consented to the use of interconnection. If a licensee has agreed to the use of interconnection on the channel, but later decides against the use of interconnection, the licensee may request that the co-channel licensees reconsider the use of interconnection. If the licensee is unable to reach an agreement with co-channel licensees, the licensee may request that the Commission consider the matter and assign it to another channel. If a new licensee is assigned to a frequency where all the co-channel licensees have agreed to the use of interconnection and the new licensee does not agree, the new licensee may request that the co-channel licensees reconsider the use of interconnection. If the new licensee cannot reach an agreement with co-channel licensees it may request that the Commission reassign it to another channel.
                            

(e) Additional frequencies shall not be assigned to enable any licensee to employ a preferred interconnection capability.

(f) Paging systems operating on frequencies in the bands below 800 MHz are not subject to the interconnection provisions of § 90.477(d)(3).

