(a) The 763-768/793-798 MHz bands are allocated on a nationwide basis for public safety broadband operations and licensed to a single Public Safety Broadband Licensee. The 768-769/798-799 MHz bands also are licensed to the Public Safety Broadband Licensees as guard bands. The license area of the Public Safety Broadband License consists of the contiguous 48 states, Alaska, Hawaii, Gulf of Mexico, and the U.S. territories.

(b) The Public Safety Broadband License authorizes construction and operation of base stations anywhere within the area authorized by the license, except as follows:

(1) A station is required to be individually licensed if:

(i) International agreements require coordination;

(ii) Submission of an environmental assessment is required under ยง 1.1307 of this chapter; or

(iii) The station would affect areas identified in ยง 1.924 of this chapter.

(2) Any antenna structure that requires notification to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) must be registered with the Commission prior to construction under ยง 17.4 of this chapter.

(c) Mobile and portable devices may operate without individual license under the authority of the Public Safety Broadband License.

(d) The term of the Public Safety Broadband License shall not exceed ten years from June 13, 2009. The Public Safety Broadband Licensee is entitled to a renewal expectancy barring violations of law, rules or policy warranting denial of renewal.

(e) The Public Safety Broadband License may not be partitioned or disaggregated.

(f) The Public Safety Broadband Licensee may not voluntarily assign or transfer control of the Public Safety Broadband License.

(g) Quarterly reporting of financial and operational information. The Public Safety Broadband Licensee shall submit, on a quarterly basis, a full financial accounting to the Commission, in a format to be set forth in the Network Sharing Agreement, and as approved by the Commission. Such quarterly financial reports shall be filed with the Commission, with a copy to the Chiefs of the Wireless Telecommunications and the Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureaus.

