Transmitters designed to operate in 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz frequency bands must meet the following modulation standards:

(a) All transmitters in the 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz frequency bands must use digital modulation. Mobile and portable transmitters may have analog modulation capability only as a secondary mode in addition to its primary digital mode. Mobile and portable transmitters that only operate on the low power channels designated in §§ 90.531(b)(3), 90.531(b)(4), are exempt from this digital modulation requirement.

(b) Transmitters designed to operate in the narrowband segment using digital modulation must be capable of maintaining a minimum data (non-voice) rate of 4.8 kbps per 6.25 kHz of bandwidth.

(c) Transmitters designed to operate in the wideband segment using digital modulation must be capable of maintaining a minimum data (non-voice) rate of 384 kbps per 150 kHz of bandwidth.

(d) The following provisions apply to licensees operating in the channels designated in § 90.531(b)(5) or § 90.531(b)(6).

(1) With the exception of licensees designated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, after December 31, 2014, licensees may only operate in voice mode in these channels at a voice efficiency of at least one voice path per 6.25 kHz of spectrum bandwidth.

(2) Licensees authorized to operate systems in the voice mode on these channels from applications filed on or before December 31, 2014, may continue operating in voice mode on these channels (including modification applications of such licenses granted after December 31, 2014, for expansion or maintenance of such systems) at a voice efficiency of at least one voice path per 12.5 kHz of spectrum bandwidth until December 31, 2016.

(3) The licensees designated in paragraph (d)(2) of this section must, no later than January 31, 2017, file a declaration through the Universal Licensing System that they are operating these channels at a voice efficiency of at least one voice path per 6.25 kHz of spectrum bandwidth.

