(a) The following power limits apply to the 763-768/793-798 MHz band:

(1) Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal in the 763-768 MHz band with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less must not exceed an ERP of 1000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 1000 watts ERP in accordance with Table 1 of this section.

(2) Fixed and base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal in the 763-768 MHz band with an emission bandwidth of 1 MHz or less must not exceed an ERP of 2000 watts and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 2000 watts ERP in accordance with Table 2 of this section.

(3) Fixed and base stations transmitting a signal in the 763-768 MHz band with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz must not exceed an ERP of 1000 watts/MHz and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 1000 watts/MHz ERP accordance with Table 3 of this section.

(4) Fixed and base stations located in a county with population density of 100 or fewer persons per square mile, based upon the most recently available population statistics from the Bureau of the Census, and transmitting a signal in the 763-768 MHz band with an emission bandwidth greater than 1 MHz must not exceed an ERP of 2000 watts/MHz and an antenna height of 305 m HAAT, except that antenna heights greater than 305 m HAAT are permitted if power levels are reduced below 2000 watts/MHz ERP in accordance with Table 4 of this section.

(5) Licensees of fixed or base stations transmitting a signal in the 763-768 MHz band at an ERP greater than 1000 watts must comply with the provisions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.

(6) Control stations and mobile stations transmitting in the 763-768 MHz band and the 793-798 MHz band are limited to 30 watts ERP.

(7) Portable stations (hand-held devices) transmitting in the 763-768 MHz band and the 793-798 MHz band are limited to 3 watts ERP.

(8) For transmissions in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands, licensees may employ equipment operating in compliance with either of the following measurement techniques:

(i) The maximum composite transmit power shall be measured over any interval of continuous transmission using instrumentation calibrated in terms of RMS-equivalent voltage. The measurement results shall be properly adjusted for any instrument limitations, such as detector response times, limited resolution bandwidth capability when compared to the emission bandwidth, etc., so as to obtain a true maximum composite measurement for the emission in question over the full bandwidth of the channel.

(ii) A Commission-approved average power technique.

(b) For base and fixed stations operating in the 763-768 MHz band in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the power flux density that would be produced by such stations through a combination of antenna height and vertical gain pattern must not exceed 3000 microwatts per square meter on the ground over the area extending to 1 km from the base of the antenna mounting structure.

