Transmitters designed to operate in 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz frequency bands must meet the emission limitations in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. Transmitters operating in 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands must meet the emission limitations in (e) of this section.

(a) The adjacent channel power (ACP) requirements for transmitters designed for various channel sizes are shown in the following tables. Mobile station requirements apply to handheld, car mounted and control station units. The tables specify a value for the ACP as a function of the displacement from the channel center frequency and measurement bandwidth. In the following tables, “(s)” indicates a swept measurement may be used.

(b) ACP measurement procedure. The following are the procedures for making the transmitter ACP measurements. For all measurements modulate the transmitter as it would be modulated in normal operating conditions. For time division multiple access (TDMA) systems, the measurements are to be made under TDMA operation only during time slots when the transmitter is active. All measurements are made at the transmitter's output port. If a transmitter has an integral antenna, a suitable power coupling device shall be used to couple the RF signal to the measurement instrument. The coupling device shall substantially maintain the proper transmitter load impedance. The ACP measurements may be made with a spectrum analyzer capable of making direct ACP measurements. “Measurement bandwidth”, as used for non-swept measurements, implies an instrument that measures the power in many narrow bandwidths equal to the nominal resolution bandwidth and integrates these powers to determine the total power in the specified measurement bandwidth.

(1) Setting reference level. Set transmitter to maximum output power. Using a spectrum analyzer capable of ACP measurements, set the measurement bandwidth to the channel size. For example, for a 6.25 kHz transmitter set the measurement bandwidth to 6.25 kHz. Set the frequency offset of the measurement bandwidth to zero and adjust the center frequency of the instrument to the assigned center frequency to measure the average power level of the transmitter. Record this power level in dBm as the “reference power level.”

(2) Non-swept power measurement. Using a spectrum analyzer capable of ACP measurements, set the mesurement bandwidth and frequency offset from the assigned center frequency as shown in the tables in § 90.543 (a) above. Any value of resolution bandwidth may be used as long as it does not exceed 2 percent of the specified measurement bandwidth. Measure the power level in dBm. These measurements should be made at maximum power. Calculate ACP by substracting the reference power level measured in (b)(1) from the measurements made in this step. The absolute value of the calculated ACP must be greater than or equal to the absolute value of the ACP given in the table for each condition above.

(3) Swept power measurement. Set a spectrum analyzer to 30 kHz resolution bandwidth, 1 MHz video bandwidth and average, sample, or RMS detection. Set the reference level of the spectrum analyzer to the RMS value of the transmitter power. Sweep above and below the carrier frequency to the limits defined in the tables. Calculate ACP by substracting the reference power level measured in (b)(1) from the measurements made in this step. The absolute value of the calculated ACP must be greater than or equal to the absolute value of the ACP given in the table for each condition above.

(c) Out-of-band emission limit. On any frequency outside of the frequency ranges covered by the ACP tables in this section, the power of any emission must be reduced below the mean output power (P) by at least 43 + 10log (P) dB measured in a 100 kHz bandwidth for frequencies less than 1 GHz, and in a 1 MHz bandwidth for frequencies greater than 1 GHz.

(d) Authorized bandwidth. Provided that the ACP requirements of this section are met, applicants may request any authorized bandwidth that does not exceed the channel size.

(e) For operations in the 763-768 MHz and the 793-798 MHz bands, the power of any emission outside the licensee's frequency band(s) of operation shall be attenuated below the transmitter power (P) within the licensed band(s) of operation, measured in watts, in accordance with the following:

(1) On all frequencies between 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz, by a factor not less than 76 + 10 log (P) dB in a 6.25 kHz band segment, for base and fixed stations.

(2) On all frequencies between 769-775 MHz and 799-805 MHz, by a factor not less than 65 + 10 log (P) dB in a 6.25 kHz band segment, for mobile and portable stations.

(3) Compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section is based on the use of measurement instrumentation such that the reading taken with any resolution bandwidth setting should be adjusted to indicate spectral energy in a 6.25 kHz segment.

(f) For operations in the 763-775 MHz and 793-805 MHz bands, all emissions including harmonics in the band 1559-1610 MHz shall be limited to -70 dBW/MHz equivalent isotropically radiated power (EIRP) for wideband signals, and -80 dBW EIRP for discrete emissions of less than 700 Hz bandwidth. For the purpose of equipment authorization, a transmitter shall be tested with an antenna that is representative of the type that will be used with the equipment in normal operation.

(g) When an emission outside of the authorized bandwidth causes harmful interference, the Commission may, at its discretion, require greater attenuation than specified in this section.

