Each regional planning committee must submit a regional plan for approval by the Commission.

(a) Common elements. Regional plans must incorporate the following common elements:

(1) Identification of the document as the regional plan for the defined region with the names, business addresses, business telephone numbers, and organizational affiliations of the chairpersons and all members of the planning committee.

(2) A summary of the major elements of the plan and an explanation of how all eligible entities within the region were given an opportunity to participate in the planning process and to have their positions heard and considered fairly.

(3) A general description of how the spectrum would be allotted among the various eligible users within the region with an explanation of how the requirements of all eligible entities within the region were considered and, to the degree possible, met.

(4) An explanation as to how needs were assigned priorities in areas where not all eligible entities could receive licenses.

(5) An explanation of how the plan had been coordinated with adjacent regions.

(6) A detailed description of how the plan put the spectrum to the best possible use by requiring system design with minimum coverage areas, by assigning frequencies so that maximum frequency reuse and offset channel use may be made, by using trunking, and by requiring small entities with minimal requirements to join together in using a single system where possible.

(7) A detailed description of the future planning process, including, but not limited to, amendment process, meeting announcements, data base maintenance, and dispute resolution.

(8) A certification by the regional planning chairperson that all planning committee meetings, including subcommittee or executive committee meetings, were open to the public.

(b) Modification of regional plans. Regional plans may be modified by submitting a written request, signed by the regional planning committee, to the Chief, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau. The request must contain the full text of the modification, and must certify that successful coordination of the modification with all adjacent regions has occurred and that all such regions concur with the modification.

