(a) Non-SMR conventional systems of communication will be authorized on the basis of a minimum loading criteria of seventy (70) mobile stations for each channel authorized.

(b) A channel will not be assigned to additional licensees when it is loaded to 70 mobile stations. Where a licensee does not load a channel to 70 mobiles the channel will be available for assignment to other licensees. All authorizations for conventional systems are issued subject to this potential channel sharing condition.

(c) Except as provided in ยง 90.629 of this part, licensees of conventional systems must place their authorized stations in operation not later than one year after the date of grant of the system license.

(d) If a station is not placed in operation within one year, except as provided in Section 90.629 of this part, the license cancels automatically. For purposes of this section, a base station is not considered to be in operation unless at least one associated mobile station is also in operation.
                      

(e) A non-SMR licensee may apply for additional frequency pairs if its authorized conventional channel(s) is loaded to seventy (70) mobiles. Applications may be considered for additional channels in areas where spectrum is still available and not applied for, even if the already authorized channel(s) is not loaded to 70 mobile units, upon an appropriate demonstration of need.

(f) Wide area systems may be authorized to persons eligible for licensing under subparts B or C of this part upon an appropriate showing of need. For loading purposes, if the total number of mobile stations justifies the total number of authorized based frequencies in a given area, the system will be construed to be loaded.

(g) Regional, statewide, or ribbon configuration systems may be authorized to persons eligible for licensing under subparts B or C of this part upon an appropriate showing of need. In a ribbon, regional or statewide system, a mobile station will be counted for channel loading purposes only for the base station facility in the geographic area in which it primarily operates. If this cannot be determined, it will be counted fractionally over the number of base station facilities with which it communicates regularly.

