(a) Except for control stations, operational fixed operations will not be authorized in the 806-824 MHz, 851-869 MHz, 896-901 MHz, or 935-940 MHz bands. This does not preclude secondary fixed tone signaling and alarm operations authorized in § 90.235 or in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) Control stations associated with one or more mobile relay stations will be authorized only on the assigned frequency of the associated mobile station. Use of a mobile service frequency by a control station of a mobile relay system is subject to the condition that harmful interference shall not be caused to stations of licensees authorized to use the frequency for mobile service communications.

(c) Trunked and conventional systems that have exclusive-use status in their respective geographic areas may conduct fixed ancillary signaling and data transmissions subject to the following requirements:

(1) All operations must be on a secondary, non-interference basis to the primary mobile operation of any other licensee.

(2) The output power at the remote site must not exceed 30 watts.
                        

(3) Any fixed transmitters will not count toward meeting the mobile loading requirements nor be considered in whole or in part as a justification for authorizing additional frequencies in the licensee's mobile system.

(4) Automatic means must be provided to deactivate the remote transmitter in the event the carrier remains on for a period in excess of three minutes.

(5) Operational fixed stations authorized pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section are exempt from the requirements of §§ 90.425 and 90.429.

(d) Conventional systems that do not have exclusive-use status in their respective geographic areas may conduct fixed ancillary signaling and data transmissions only in accordance with all the provisions of § 90.235.

