(a) Conventional systems of communication shall be identified in accordance with existing regulations governing such matters.

(b) Trunked systems of communication, except as noted in paragraph (c) of this section, shall be identified through the use of an automatic device which transmits the call sign of the base station facility at 30 minute intervals. Such station identification shall be made on the lowest frequency in the base station trunk group assigned the licensee. Should this frequency be in use at the time station identification is required, such identification may be made at the termination of the communication in progress on this frequency. Identification may be made by voice or International Morse Code. When the call sign is transmitted in International Morse Code, it must be at a rate of between 15 to 20 words per minute and by means of tone modulation of the transmitter, the tone frequency being between 800 and 1000 hertz.

(c) Stations operating in either the 806-824/851-869 MHz or 896-901/935-940 MHz bands that are licensed on an exclusive basis, and normally employ digital signals for the transmission of data, text, control codes, or digitized voice may also be identified by digital transmission of the call sign. A licensee that identifies its station in this manner must provide the Commission, upon its request, information sufficient to decode the digital transmission and ascertain the call sign transmitted.

(d) Notwithstanding the requirements set forth in this paragraph, systems operated by geographic area CMRS licensees are subject only to the station identification requirements of ยง 90.425(e).

