(a) General provisions. These provisions apply to “incumbent licensees,” all 800 MHz licensees authorized in the 809-821/854-866 MHz band who obtained licenses or filed applications on or before December 15, 1995.

(b) Spectrum blocks A through V. An incumbent licensee's service area shall be defined by its originally licensed 40 dBμV/m field strength contour and its interference contour shall be defined as its originally-licensed 22 dBμV/m field strength contour. The “originally-licensed” contour shall be calculated using the maximum ERP and the actual height of the antenna above average terrain (HAAT) along each radial. Incumbent licensees are permitted to add, remove or modify transmitter sites within their original 22 dBμV/m field strength contour without prior notification to the Commission so long as their original 22 dBμV/m field strength contour is not expanded. Incumbent licensee protection extends only to its 40 dBμV/m signal strength contour. Pursuant to the minor modification notification procedures set forth in 1.947(b), the incumbent licensee must notify the Commission within 30 days of any change in technical parameters for stations that are authorized under a waiver of 90.621(b)(4), or that are authorized under 90.621(b)(5).

(c) Special provisions for spectrum blocks F1 through V. Incumbent licensees that have received the consent of all affected parties or a certified frequency coordinator to utilize an 18 dBμV/m signal strength interference contour shall have their service area defined by their originally-licensed 36 dBμV/m field strength contour and their interference contour shall be defined as their originally-licensed 18 dBμV/m field strength contour. The “originally-licensed” contour shall be calculated using the maximum ERP and the actual HAAT along each radial. Incumbent licensees seeking to utilize an 18 dBμV/m signal strength interference contour shall first seek to obtain the consent of affected co-channel incumbents. When the consent of a co-channel licensee is withheld, an incumbent licensee may submit to any certified frequency coordinator an engineering study showing that interference will not occur, together with proof that the incumbent licensee has sought consent. Incumbent licensees are permitted to add, remove or modify transmitter sites within their original 18 dBμV/m field strength contour without prior notification to the Commission so long as their original 18 dBμV/m field strength contour is not expanded. Incumbent licensee protection extends only to its 36 dBμV/m signal strength contour. Pursuant to the minor modification notification procedures set forth in 1.947(b), the incumbent licensee must notify the Commission within 30 days of any change in technical parameters for stations that are authorized under a waiver of 90.621(b)(4), or that are authorized under 90.621(b)(5).

(d) Consolidated license—(1) Spectrum blocks A through V. Incumbent licensees operating at multiple sites may, after grant of EA licenses has been completed, exchange multiple site licenses for a single license, authorizing operations throughout the contiguous and overlapping 40 dBµV/m field strength contours of the multiple sites. Incumbents exercising this license exchange option must submit specific information on Form 601 for each of their external base sites after the close of the 800 MHz SMR auction. The incumbent's geographic license area is defined by the contiguous and overlapping 22 dBµV/m contours of its constructed and operational external base stations and interior sites that are constructed within the construction period applicable to the incumbent. Once the geographic license is issued, facilities that are added within an incumbent's existing footprint and that are not subject to prior approval by the Commission will not be subject to construction requirements.

(2) Special Provisions for Spectrum Blocks F1 through V. Incumbent licensees that have received the consent of all affected parties or a certified frequency coordinator to utilize an 18 dBµV/m signal strength interference contour operating at multiple sites may, after grant of EA licenses has been completed, exchange multiple site licenses for a single license. This single site license will authorize operations throughout the contiguous and overlapping 36 dBµV/m field strength contours of the multiple sites. Incumbents exercising this license exchange option must submit specific information on Form 601 for each of their external base sites after the close of the 800 SMR auction. The incumbent's geographic license area is defined by the contiguous and overlapping 18 dBµV/m contours of its constructed and operational external base stations and interior sites that are constructed within the construction period applicable to the incumbent. Once the geographic license is issued, facilities that are added within an incumbent's existing footprint and that are not subject to prior approval by the Commission will not be subject to construction requirements.

