The Transition Administrator will be an independent party with no financial interest in any 800 MHz licensee; and will be selected by a committee representative of 800 MHz licensees. The Transition Administrator will serve both a ministerial role and a function similar to a special master in a judicial proceeding.

(a) The duties of the Transition Administrator will include, but not be limited to:

(1) Obtaining estimates from licensees regarding the cost of reconfiguring their systems and ensuring that estimates contain a firm work schedule. The Transition Administrator will retain copies of all estimates and make them available to the Commission on request.

(2) Mediating disputes regarding cost estimates for reconfiguring a system.

(3) Issuing the Draw Certificate to authorize and instruct the Letter of Credit Trustee to draw down on the Letter of Credit to pay relocation costs in connection with reconfiguring a licensee's system.

(4) Establishing a relocation schedule on a NPSPAC region-by-region basis, prioritizing the regions on the basis of population. However, should a given region be encountering unusually severe amounts of unacceptable interference, that region may be moved up in priority. Any party disputing such a change in priority may refer the matter to the Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, who hereby is delegated the authority to resolve such disputes. The Transition Administrator may direct that adjoining regions be reconfigured simultaneously when conditions so require.

(5) The Transition Administrator will coordinate relocation of a NPSPAC Region's NPSPAC channels with the relevant Regional Planning Committee(s) prior to commencing band reconfiguration in a NPSPAC Region.

(b) Once band reconfiguration commences in a given NPSPAC Region, the Transition Administrator will;

(1) Monitor the retuning schedule and resolve any schedule delays or refer same to the Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, for resolution;
                                

(2) Coordinate with adjoining NPSPAC Regions to ensure that interference is not being caused to their existing facilities from relocated stations;

(3) Provide quarterly progress reports to the Commission in such detail as the Commission may require and include, with such reports, certifications by Nextel and the relevant licensees that relocation has been completed and that both parties agree on the amount received from the letter of credit proceeds in connection with relocation of the licensees' facilities. The report shall include description of any disputes that have arisen and the manner in which they were resolved. These quarterly reports need not be audited. The Transition Administrator may select the dates for filing the quarterly progress reports;

(4) Provide the Chief, Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, with an annual audited statement of relocation funds expended to date, including salaries and expenses of Transition Administrator. The Transition Administrator may select the date for filing the annual audited statement;

(5) Facilitate resolution of disputes by mediation; or referral of the parties to alternative dispute resolution services as described in § 90.677(d).

(6) Notify the Commission when band reconfiguration is complete in each 800 MHz NPSPAC Region and identify which vacant channels are exclusively available to eligible applicants in the Public Safety or Critical Infrastructure Industry Categories as set forth in §sect; 90.615(a), (b) and 90.617(g), (h).

(c) The Transition Administrator may not serve as the repository of funds used in band reconfiguration, excepting such sums as Nextel may pay for the Transition Administrator's services. Moreover, the Transition Administrator will not be certified by the Commission as a frequency coordinator.

