The following channels will be available at locations farther then 110 km (68.4 miles) from the U.S./Mexico border and 140 km (87 miles) from the U.S./Canadian border (“non-border areas”).

(a) Unless otherwise specified, the channels listed in Table 1 and paragraph (a)(1) of this section are available for to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category which consists of licensees eligible in the Public Safety Pool of subpart B of this part. 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels. These frequencies are available in non-border areas. Specialized Mobile Radio Systems will not be authorized in this category. These channels are available for intercategory sharing as indicated in § 90.621(e).

(1) Channels numbers 1-230 are also available to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category in non-border areas. The assignment of these channels will be done in accordance with the policies defined in the Report and Order of Gen. Docket No. 87-112 (See § 90.16). The following channels are available only for mutual aid purposes as defined in Gen. Docket No. 87-112: channels 1, 39, 77, 115, 153.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the channels listed in Table 1A are available in the counties listed in § 90.614(c) to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category. 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels. These channels are available for intercategory sharing as indicated in § 90.621(e).

(3) The channels listed in Table 1B are available within 113 km (70 mi) of the center city coordinates of Atlanta, GA to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category. The center city coordinates of Atlanta, GA—for the purposes of the rule—are defined as 33°44′55″ NL, 84°23′17″ WL. 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels. These channels are available for intercategory sharing as indicated in § 90.621(e).

(b) Unless otherwise specified, the channels listed in Table 2 are available to applicants eligible in the Industrial/Business Pool of subpart C of this part but exclude Special Mobilized Radio Systems as defined in § 90.603(c). 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels. These frequencies are available in non-border areas. Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) systems will not be authorized on these frequencies. These channels are available for inter-category sharing as indicated in § 90.621(e).

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the channels listed in Table 2A are available in the counties listed in § 90.614(c) to eligible applicants in the Industrial/Business Pool of subpart C of this part but exclude Special Mobilized Radio Systems as defined in § 90.603(c). 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels. These channels are available for intercategory sharing as indicated in § 90.621(e).

(2) The channels listed in Table 2B are available within 113 km (70 mi) of the center city coordinates of Atlanta, GA, to eligible applicants in the Industrial/Business Pool of subpart C of this part but exclude Special Mobilized Radio Systems as defined in § 90.603(c). The center city coordinates of Atlanta, GA—for the purposes of the rule—are defined as 33°44′55″ NL, 84°23′17″ WL. 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels. These channels are available for intercategory sharing as indicated in § 90.621(e).

(c) The channels listed in Table 3 are available to applicants eligible in the Industrial/Business Pool of subpart C of this part but exclude Special Mobilized Radio Systems as defined in § 90.603(c). These frequencies are available in non-border areas. Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) systems will not be authorized on these frequencies. These channels are available for intercategory sharing as indicated in § 90.621(e).

For multi-channel systems, channels may be grouped vertically or horizontally as they appear in the following table.

(d) Unless otherwise specified, the channels listed in Tables 4A and 4B are available only to eligibles in the SMR category—which consists of Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) stations and eligible end users. 800 MHz high density cellular systems, as defined in § 90.7, are prohibited on these channels. These frequencies are available in non-border areas. The spectrum blocks listed in Table 4A are available for EA-based services (as defined by § 90.681) prior to January 21, 2005. No new EA-based services will be authorized after January 21, 2005. EA-based licensees who operate non-high-density cellular systems prior to January 21, 2005, may choose to remain on these channels in the non-high-density cellular portion of the 800 MHz band (as defined in § 90.614). These licensees may continue to operate non-high-density cellular systems and will be grandfathered indefinitely. The channels listed in Table 4B will be available for site-based licensing after January 21, 2005, in any Economic Area where no EA-based licensee is authorized for these channels.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the channels listed in Table 4C are available in the counties listed in § 90.614(c) for non-high-density cellular operations only to eligibles in the SMR category—which consists of Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) stations and eligible end users. 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels. These channels are available for intercategory sharing as indicated in § 90.621(e).
                            

(2) The channels listed in Table 4D are available within 113 km (70 mi) of the center city coordinates of Atlanta, GA, only to eligibles in the SMR category—which consists of Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) stations and eligible end users. The center city coordinates of Atlanta, GA—for the purposes of this rule—are defined as 33°44′55″ NL, 84°23′17″ WL. 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels. These channels are available for intercategory sharing as indicated in § 90.621(e). 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels. These channels are available for intercategory sharing as indicated in § 90.621(e).

(e) The Channels listed in § 90.614(b) and (c) are available to eligibles in the SMR category—which consists of Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) stations and eligible end users. ESMR licensees which employ an 800 MHz high density cellular system, as defined in § 90.7, are permitted to operate on these channels in non-border areas. ESMR licensees authorized prior to January 21, 2005, may continue to operate, if they so choose, on the channels listed in Table 5. These licensees will be grandfathered indefinitely.

(f) The channels listed in Tables 6 are available for operations only to eligibles in the SMR category—which consists of Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) stations and eligible end users. These frequencies are available in non-border areas. The spectrum blocks listed below are available for EA-based services according to § 90.681.

(g) In a given NPSPAC region, channels below 471 listed in Tables 2 and 4B which are vacated by licensees relocating to channels 551-830 and which remain vacant after band reconfiguration will be available as indicated in § 90.617(g)(1 through 3). The only exception will be for the counties listed in § 90.614(c). At locations greater then 113 km (70 mi) from the center city coordinates of Atlanta, GA within the counties listed in § 90.614(c), the channels listed in Tables 2A and 4C which are vacated by licensees relocating to channels 411-830 and which remain vacant after band reconfiguration will be available as indicated in § 90.617(g)(1 through 3). At locations within 113 km (70 mi) of the center city coordinates of Atlanta, GA, the channels listed in Tables 2B and 4D which are vacated by licensees relocating to channels 411-830 and which remain vacant after band reconfiguration will be available as follows:

(1) Only to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category until three years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region;

(2) Only to eligible applicants in the Public Safety or Critical Infrastructure Industry Categories from three to five years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region;

(3) Five years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region, these channels revert back to their original pool categories.

(h) In a given 800 MHz NPSPAC region—except for the counties listed in § 90.614(c)—channels below 471 listed in Tables 2 and 4B which are vacated by a licensee relocating to channels 511-550 and remain vacant after band reconfiguration will be available as follows:

(1) Only to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category until three years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region;

(2) Only to eligible applicants in the Public Safety or Critical Infrastructure Industry Categories from three to five years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region;

(3) Five years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region, these channels revert back to their original pool categories.

(i) Special Mobilized Radio Systems licensees who operate systems, other than 800 MHz high density cellular systems, on any of the public safety channels listed in Table 1 prior to January 21, 2005, are grandfathered and may continue to operate on these channels indefinitely. These grandfathered licensees will be prohibited from operating 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7. Site-based licensees who are grandfathered on any of the public safety channels listed in Table 1 may modify their license only if they obtain concurrence from a certified public safety coordinator in accordance with § 90.175(c). Grandfathered EA-based licensees, however, are exempt from any of the frequency coordination requirements of § 90.175 as long as their operations remain within the Economic Area defined by their license in accordance with the requirements of § 90.683(a).

(j) Licensees operating 800 MHz high density cellular systems on the channels listed in § 90.614(a), prior to January 21, 2005, may elect to continue operating on these channels and will be permitted to continue operating 800 MHz high density cellular systems (as defined in § 90.7) in this portion of the band. These licensees will be grandfathered indefinitely subject to the provisions of §§ 90.673, 90.674 and 90.675.

(k) Licensees may operate systems other than 800 MHz high density cellular systems (as defined in § 90.7) on Channels 511-550 at any location vacated by an EA-based SMR licensee. For operations on these channels, unacceptable interference (as defined in § 22.970 of this chapter and § 90.672) will be deemed to occur only at sites where the following median desired signals are received (rather than those specified in § 22.970(a)(1)(i) of this chapter and § 90.672(a)(1(i). The minimum required median desired signal, as measured at the R.F. input of the receiver, will be as follows:

(1) Mobile units (except in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands):

(i) For channels 511 to 524—the minimum median desired signal levels specified in § 22.970(a)(1)(i) of this chapter and § 90.672(a)(1)(i) shall apply;

(ii) For channels 524 to 534—the minimum median desired signal level shall increase linearly from the values specified in § 22.970(a)(1)(i) of this chapter and § 90.672(a)(1)(i) to −70 dBm;

(iii) For channels 534 to 550—the minimum median desired signal level shall increase linearly from −70 dBm to −65 dBm.

(2) Portable units (except in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands):

(i) For channels 511 to 524—the minimum median desired signal levels specified in § 22.970(a)(1)(i) of this chapter and § 90.672(a)(1)(i) shall apply;

(ii) For channels 524 to 530—the minimum median desired signal level shall increase linearly from the values specified in § 22.970(a)(1)(i) of this chapter and § 90.672(a)(1)(i) to −80 dBm;

(iii) For channels 530 to 534—the minimum median desired signal level shall increase linearly from −80 dBm to −70 dBm;

(iv) For channels 534 to 550—the minimum median desired signal level shall increase linearly from −70 dBm to −65 dBm.

(3) Mobile units operating in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands:

(i) For channels 511 to 530—the minimum median desired signal levels specified in § 22.970(a)(1)(i) of this chapter and § 90.672(a)(1)(i) shall apply;

(ii) For channels 531 to 534—the minimum median desired signal level shall increase linearly from −80.2 dBm to −70 dBm;

(iii) For channels 534 to 550—the minimum median desired signal level shall increase linearly from −70 dBm to −65 dBm.

(4) Portable units operating in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands:

(i) For channels 511 to 530—the minimum median desired signal levels specified in § 22.970(a)(1)(i) of this chapter and § 90.672(a)(1)(i) shall apply;

(ii) For channels 531 to 534—the minimum median desired signal level shall increase linearly from −80 dBm to −70 dBm;

(iii) For channels 534 to 550—the minimum median desired signal level shall increase linearly from −70 dBm to −65 dBm.

