(a) Prior coordination. Public safety/CII licensees may notify an ESMR or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone licensee that they wish to receive prior notification of the activation or modification of ESMR or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone cell sites in their area. Thereafter, the ESMR or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone licensee must provide the following information to the public safety/CII licensee at least 10 business days before a new cell site is activated or an existing cell site is modified:

(1) Location;

(2) Effective radiated power;

(3) Antenna height;

(4) Channels available for use.

(b) Purpose of prior coordination. The coordination of cell sites is for informational purposes only: public safety/CII licensees are not afforded the right to accept or reject the activation of a proposed cell or to unilaterally require changes in its operating parameters. The principal purposes of notification are to:

(1) Allow a public safety/CII licensee to advise the ESMR or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone licensee whether it believes a proposed cell will generate unacceptable interference;

(2) Permit ESMR or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone licensees to make voluntary changes in cell parameters when a public safety licensee alerts them to possible interference; and

(3) Rapidly identify the source if interference is encountered when the cell is activated.

(c) Public safety information exchange. (1) Upon request by an ESMR or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone licensee, public safety/CII licensees who operate radio systems in the 806-824/851-869 MHz shall provide the operating parameters of their radio system to the ESMR or part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone licensee.

(2) Public safety licensees who perform the information exchange as described in this section must notify the appropriate ESMR and part 22 Cellular Radiotelephone licensees prior to any technical changes to their radio system.

