Conventional and trunked radio systems may be used:

(a) Only for purposes expressly allowed under this part.

(b) Only persons who are eligible for facilities, either under this subpart or in the radio service included under subparts B or C of this part.

(c) Except for licensees classified as CMRS providers under part 20 of this chapter, only for the transmission of messages or signals permitted in the services is which the participants are eligible.

(d) For digital or analog transmissions.

(e) An SMRS licensee or a licensee who has been authorized a channel(s) on an exclusive basis, may use the system for the transmission of any base/mobile message, page or signal permitted in the service in which the participants are eligible.

(f) Where the channel(s) is assigned to an SMRS licensee or exclusively to a single licensee, or where all users of a system agree, more than a single emission may be utilized within the authorized bandwidth. In such cases, the frequency stability requirements of § 90.213 shall not apply, but out-of-band emission limits of § 90.209 shall be met.

(g) Up to five (5) contiguous 809-816/854-861 band channels as listed in §§ 90.615, 90.617, and 90.619 may be authorized after justification for systems requiring more than the normal single channel bandwidth. If necessary, licensees may trade channels amongst themselves in order to obtain contiguous frequencies. Notification of such proposed exchanges shall be made to the appropriate frequency coordinator(s) and to the Commission by filing an application for license modification.

(h) Up to 10 contiguous 896-901/935-940 MHz band channels as listed in § 90.617 may be combined for systems requiring more than the normal single channel bandwidth. If necessary, licensees may trade channels amongst themselves in order to obtain contiguous frequencies. Notification of such proposed exchanges shall be made to the appropriate frequency coordinator(s) and to the Commission by filing an application for license modification.
                                    

(i) Paging operations may be utilized on multiple licensed facilities (community repeaters) only when all licensees of the facility agree to such use.

