(a) Use of frequencies in 800 MHz band in Mexico border region. All operations in the 806-824/851-869 MHz band within 110 km (68.4 miles) of the U.S./Mexico border (“Mexico border region”) shall be in accordance with international agreements between the U.S. and Mexico. Channels 231-710 are offset 12.5 kHz lower in frequency than those specified in the table in § 90.613. Stations located on Mt. Lemmon, serving the Tucson, AZ area, will only be authorized offset frequencies.

(b) Use of frequencies in 900 MHz Band in Mexico border region. All operations in the 896-901/935-940 MHz band within the Mexico border region shall be in accordance with international agreements between the U.S. and Mexico.

(1) The channels listed in Table 1 below are available to applicants eligible in the Industrial/Business Pool of subpart C of this part but exclude Special Mobilized Radio Systems as defined in § 90.603(c). These frequencies are available within the Mexico border region. Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) systems will not be authorized on these frequencies.

For multi-channel systems, channels may be grouped vertically or horizontally as they appear in the following table. Channels numbered above 200 may be used only subject to the power flux density limits stated in paragraph (a)(2) of this section:

(2) The channels listed in Table 2 of this section are available for operations only to eligibles in the SMR category—which consists of Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) stations and eligible end users. These frequencies are available in the Mexico border region. The spectrum blocks listed in the table below are available for EA-based services according to § 90.681.

(3) The specific channels that are available for licensing in the band 896-901/935-940 MHz within the Mexico border region are subject to Effective Radiated Power (ERP) and Antenna Height limitations as indicated in Table 3 below.

(4) All channels in the 896-901/935-940 MHz band are available for assignment to U.S. stations within the Mexico border region if the maximum power flux density (pfd) of the station's transmitted signal at any point at or beyond the border does not exceed −107 dB (W/m2). The spreading loss must be calculated using the free space formula taking into account any antenna discrimination in the direction of the border. Authorizations for stations using channels allotted to Mexico on a primary basis will be secondary to Mexican operations and conditioned to require that licensees take immediate action to eliminate any harmful interference resulting from the station's transmitted signal exceeding −107 dB (W/m2).

(c) Use of 800 MHz Band in Canada Border Region. All operations in the 806-824/851-869 MHz band within 140 km (87 miles) of the U.S./Canada border (“U.S./Canada border area”) shall be in accordance with international agreements between the U.S. and Canada.

(1) The U.S./Canada border area is divided into the following geographical regions (“Canada Border Regions”). U.S. primary channels are shown in the table by region. The remaining channels are primary to Canada (“Canada Primary channels”).

(2) Stations authorized on U.S. primary channels in all Canada Border Regions, except Region 5, will be subject to the Effective Radiated Power (ERP) and Effective Antenna Height (EAH) limitations listed in Table C2. The Effective Antenna Height is calculated by subtracting the Assumed Average Terrain Elevation (AATE) listed in Table C3 from the antenna height above mean sea level.

(3) Stations authorized on U.S. primary channels in Canada Border Region 5 will be subject to the Effective Radiated Power (ERP) and Antenna Height Above Mean Sea Level limitations listed in Table C4.

(4) Stations may be authorized on Canada Primary channels in the Canada Border Regions provided the maximum power flux density (PFD) per 25 kHz at or beyond the border does not exceed −107 dB(W/m2). Stations authorized on Canada Primary channels will be secondary to stations in Canada unless otherwise specified in an international agreement between the U.S. and Canada.

(5) Stations authorized to operate within 30 kilometers of the center city coordinates listed in Table C5 may operate according to the band plan for Canadian Border Regions 7A and 7B as indicated below.

(6) The channels listed in Table C6 and paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section are available in the Canada Border Regions for non-cellular operations to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category which consists of licensees eligible in the Public Safety Pool of subpart B of this part. 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels.

(i) Channel numbers 1-230 are also available to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category in the Canada Border Regions. The assignment of these channels will be done in accordance with the policies defined in the Report and Order of Gen. Docket No. 87-112 (See § 90.16). The following channels are available only for mutual aid purposes as defined in Gen. Docket No. 87-112: Channels 1, 39, 77, 115, 153.

(ii) [Reserved]

(7) The channels listed in Table C7 are available in the Canada Border Regions for the General Category. All entities will be eligible for licensing on these channels. 800 MHz high density cellular systems as defined in § 90.7 are permitted on these channels only as indicated in Table C7. The channels noted for Regions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 where high density cellular systems are prohibited are all frequencies that are primary to Canada. Stations may be licensed on these Canada Primary channels according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(8) The channels listed in Table C8 are available in the Canada Border Regions to applicants eligible in the Industrial/Business Pool of subpart C of this part but exclude Special Mobilized Radio Systems as defined in § 90.603(c). 800 MHz cellular high density systems as defined in § 90.7 are prohibited on these channels.

(9) The channels listed in Table C9 are available in the Canada Border Regions to applicants eligible in the SMR category—which consists of Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) stations and eligible end users. 800 MHz high density cellular systems, as defined in § 90.7, are prohibited on these channels.

(10) The channels listed in Table C10 are available in the Canada Border Regions to applicants eligible in the SMR category—which consists of Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) stations and eligible end users. ESMR licensees who employ 800 MHz high density cellular systems, as defined in § 90.7, are permitted to operate on these channels. Some of the channels listed in Table C10 are primary to Canada as indicated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. ESMR systems may be authorized on these Canada Primary channels according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(11) In Canada Border Regions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, the following General Category channels are available for licensing to all entities except as described below in paragraphs (c)(11)(i) and (c)(11)(ii): in Regions 1, 4, 5 and 6, channels 261-560; in Region 2, channels 231-620 and in Region 3, channels 321-500.

(i) In a given 800 MHz NPSPAC region, the General Category channels listed paragraph (c)(11) of this section which are vacated by licensees relocating to channels 711-830 and which remain vacant after band reconfiguration will be available for licensing as follows:

(A) Only to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category until three years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region;

(B) Only to eligible applicants in the Public Safety or Critical Infrastructure Industry Categories from three to five years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region; and

(C) To all entities five years after release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region.

(ii) The General Category channels listed in paragraph (c)(11) of this section are primary to Canada. Stations may be authorized on these Canada Primary channels according to paragraph (c)(4).

(12) In Canada Border Regions 7A, 7B and 8, the following channels will be available as described in paragraphs (c)(12)(i) and (c)(12)(ii) of this section: for Canada Border Regions 7A and 8, channels 231-260 and channels below 471 in Tables C8 and C9; for Canada Border Region 7B all channels in Tables C8 and C9.

(i) In a given 800 MHz NPSPAC region, the channels listed paragraph (c)(12) of this section which are vacated by licensees relocating to channels 511-830 and which remain vacant after band reconfiguration will be available as follows:

(A) Only to eligible applicants in the Public Safety Category until three years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region; and

(B) Only to eligible applicants in the Public Safety or Critical Infrastructure Industry Categories from three to five years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in that region.

(ii) Five years after the release of a public notice announcing the completion of band reconfiguration in a given 800 MHz NPSPAC region, the channels listed in paragraph (c)(12) of this section will revert back to their original pool categories.

(d) Use of 900 MHz Band in Canada Border Region. All operations in the 896-901/935-940 MHz band within the Canada border region shall be in accordance with international agreements between the U.S. and Canada. The following criteria shall govern the assignment of frequency pairs (channels) in the 896-901/935-940 MHz band for stations located in the U.S./Canada border area. They are available for assignments for conventional or trunked systems in accordance with applicable sections of this subpart.

(1) Channels 1-399, as listed in § 90.613 table of 896-901/935-940 MHz Channel Designations, are available to eligible applicants for use in the U.S./Canada border area as shown in table 27. Additionally, Channels 71, 75, 79, 151, 155, and 159 are available in all regions only for implementation of an Advanced Train Control System as defined in 3 FCC Rcd 427 (1988) (Advanced Train Control Waiver).

(2) All frequency assignments made pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall comply with the requirements of § 90.619(b).

(3) In Region 5, Channels 201-397 may be authorized in the United States under the following conditions:

(i) An assignment may be made if the predicted power flux density (PFD) of a proposed station's signal does not exceed -107 dBW/m2 at the border. The prediction of the PFD is calculated based upon a modified Longley-Rice point-to-point propagation model with time and location variabilities of 10 percent 3
                   and 3-second digitized terrain date4
                  .

(ii) Authorizations for Channels 201-397 in Region 5 are secondary to Canadian operations and conditioned to require that licensees take immediate action to eliminate any harmful interference resulting from the station's transmitted signal exceeding -107 dBW/m2 at or beyond the U.S./Canada border.

(4) Channel assignments for stations to be located in the geographical area in Region 1 enclosed by the United States-Canada border, the meridian 71° W and the line beginning at the intersection of 44°25′ N, 71° W, then running by great circle arc to the intersection of 45° N, 70° W, then North along meridian 70° W to the intersection of 45°45′ N, then running West along 45°45′ N to the intersection of the United States-Canada border, will be only for channels 121 through 160, inclusive, and will be limited to assignments with 11 kHz or less necessary bandwidth. Coordination with Canada will be required for these channels.

(5) Channel assignments for stations to be located in the geographical area in Region 3 enclosed by the meridian of 81° W longitude, the arc of a circle of 100 km radius centered at 42°39′30″ N latitude and 81° W longitude at the northern shore of Lake Erie and drawn clockwise from the southerly intersection with 80°30′ W longitude to intersect the United States-Canada border West of 81° W, and the United States-Canada border, will be only for channels 121 through 230, inclusive, and will be limited to assignments with 11 kHz or less necessary bandwidth. Coordination with Canada will be required for these channels. U.S. stations must protect Canadian stations operating on channels 121 through 230 within an area of 30 km radius from the center city coordinates (referenced to North American Datum 1983 (NAD83)) of London, Ontario (42°59′00.1″ N, 81°13′59.5″ W).

(6) Additional channels available—The channels listed in table 28 are available for assignment in Regions 1-6 if the maximum power flux density (PFD) of the station's transmitted signal does not exceed the limits specified in tables 29 and 30. The spreading loss shall be calculated using the free space formula taking into account any antenna discrimination in the direction of the border.

Authorizations for stations using these channels will be secondary to Canadian operations and conditioned to require that licensees take immediate action to eliminate any harmful interference resulting from the station's transmitted signal exceeding the values specified in tables 29 or 30 at or beyond the U.S./Canada border.

