(a) A Phase I licensee's service area shall be defined by the predicted 38 dBu service contour of its authorized base station or fixed station transmitting on frequencies in the 220-221 MHz band at its initially authorized location or at the location authorized in accordance with §§ 90.751, 90.753, 90.755 and 90.757 if the licensee has sought modification of its license to relocate its initially authorized base station. The Phase I licensee's predicted 38 dBu service contour is calculated using the F(50,50) field strength chart for Channels 7-13 in § 73.699 (Fig. 10) of this chapter, with a 9 dB correction factor for antenna height differential, and is based on the authorized effective radiated power (ERP) and antenna height-above-average-terrain of the licensee's base station or fixed station. Phase I licensees are permitted to add, remove, or modify transmitter sites within their existing service area without prior notification to the Commission so long as their predicted 38 dBu service contour is not expanded. The incumbent licensee must, however, notify the Commission within 30 days of the completion of any changes in technical parameters or additional stations constructed through a minor modification of its license. Such notification must be made by submitting the appropriate FCC form and must include the appropriate filing fee, if any. These minor modification applications are not subject to public notice and petition to deny requirements or mutually exclusive applications.

(b) Phase I licensees holding authorizations for service areas that are contiguous and overlapping may exchange these authorizations for a single license, authorizing operations throughout the contiguous and overlapping service areas. Phase I licensees exercising this license exchange option must submit specific information for each of their external base station sites.

