
                            220 MHz service. The radio service for the licensing of frequencies in the 220-222 MHz band.


                            700 MHz Public/Private Partnership. The public/private partnership established for the development and operation of a nationwide, shared interoperable wireless broadband network operating on the 758-763 MHz and 788-793 MHz bands and the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands in accordance with the Commission's rules.


                            800 MHz Cellular System. In the 806-824 MHz/ 851-869 MHz band, a system that uses multiple, interconnected, multi-channel transmit/receive cells capable of frequency reuse and automatic handoff between cell sites to serve a larger number of subscribers than is possible using non-cellular technology.


                            800 MHz High Density Cellular System. In the 806-824 MHz/ 851-869 MHz band, a high density cellular system is defined as a cellular system which:

(1) Has more than five overlapping interactive sites featuring hand-off capability; and

(2) Any one of such sites has an antenna height of less than 30.4 meters (100 feet) above ground level with an antenna height above average terrain (HAAT) of less than 152.4 meters (500 feet) and twenty or more paired frequencies.


                            900 MHz SMR MTA-based license or MTA license. A license authorizing the right to use a specified block of 900 MHz SMR spectrum within one of the 47 Major Trading Areas (“MTAs”), as embodied in Rand McNally's Trading Areas System MTA Diskette and geographically represented in the map contained in Rand McNally's Commercial Atlas & Marketing Guide (the “MTA Map”), with the following exceptions and additions:

(1) Alaska is separated from the Seattle MTA and is licensed separately.

(2) Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands are licensed as a single MTA-like area.

(3) Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands are licensed as a single MTA-like area.

(4) American Samoa is licensed as a single MTA-like area.

The MTA map is available for public inspection in the Reference Information Center (Room CY-A257), 445 12th Steet, SW., Washington, DC.


                            Antenna height above average terrain (AAT). Height of the center of the radiating element of the antenna above the average terrain. (See § 90.309(a)(4) for calculation method.)


                            Antenna height above sea level. The height of the topmost point of the antenna above mean sea level.


                            Antenna structure. Structure on which an antenna is mounted.


                            Assigned frequency. Center of a frequency band assigned to a station.


                            Assigned frequency band. The frequency band the center of which coincides with the frequency assigned to the station and the width of which equals the necessary bandwidth plus twice the absolute value of the frequency tolerance.


                            Authorized bandwidth. The frequency band, specified in kilohertz and centered on the carrier frequency containing those frequencies upon which a total of 99 percent of the radiated power appears, extended to include any discrete frequency upon which the power is at least 0.25 percent of the total radiated power.


                            Automobile emergency licensee. Persons regularly engaged in any of the following activities who operate radio stations for transmission of communications required for dispatching repair trucks, tow trucks, or other road service vehicles to disabled vehicles:

(1) The operation of a private emergency road service for disabled vehicles by associations of owners of private automobiles; or
                          

(2) The business of providing to the general public an emergency road service for disabled vehicles.


                            Average terrain. The average elevation of terrain between 3.2 and 16 km (2 and 10 miles) from the antenna site.


                            Base station. A station at a specified site authorized to communicate with mobile stations.


                            Basic trading areas. Service areas that are based on the Rand McNally 1992 Commercial Atlas & Marketing Guide, 123rd Edition, at pages 38-39, with the following additions licensed separately as BTA-like areas: American Samoa; Guam, Northern Mariana Islands; Mayaguez/Aguadilla-Ponce, Puerto Rico; San Juan, Puerto Rico; and the United States Virgin Islands. The Mayaguez/Aguadilla-Ponce BTA-like service area consists of the following municipios: Adjuntas, Aguada, Aguadilla, Anasco, Arroyo, Cabo Rojo, Coamo, Guanica, Guayama, Guayanilla, Hormigueros, Isabela, Jayuya, Juana Diaz, Lajas, Las Marias, Maricao, Maunabo, Mayaguez, Moca, Patillas, Penuelas, Ponce, Quebradillas, Rincon, Sabana Grande, Salinas, San German, Santa Isabel, Villalba, and Yauco. The San Juan BTA-like service area consists of all other municipios in Puerto Rico.


                            Carrier frequency. The frequency of an unmodulated electromagnetic wave.


                            Channel loading. The number of mobile transmitters authorized to operate on a particular channel within the same service area.


                            Communications zone. The service area associated with an individual fixed Roadside Unit (RSU). The communications zone is determined based on the RSU equipment class specified in section 90.375.


                            Contention-based protocol. A protocol that allows multiple users to share the same spectrum by defining the events that must occur when two or more transmitters attempt to simultaneously access the same channel and establishing rules by which a transmitter provides reasonable opportunities for other transmitters to operate. Such a protocol may consist of procedures for initiating new transmissions, procedures for determining the state of the channel (available or unavailable), and procedures for managing retransmissions in the event of a busy channel. Contention-based protocols shall fall into one of two categories:

(1) An unrestricted contention-based protocol is one which can avoid co-frequency interference with devices using all other types of contention-based protocols.

(2) A restricted contention-based protocol is one that does not qualify as unrestricted.


                            Control point. Any place from which a transmitter's functions may be controlled.


                            Control station. An Operational Fixed Station, the transmissions of which are used to control automatically the emissions or operation of another radio station at a specified location.


                            Conventional radio system. A method of operation in which one or more radio frequency channels are assigned to mobile and base stations but are not employed as a trunked group. An “urban-conventional system” is one whose transmitter site is located within 24 km (15 miles) of the geographic center of any of the first 50 urbanized areas (ranked by population) of the United States. A “sub-urban-conventional system” is one whose transmitter site is located more than 24 km (15 miles) from the geographic center of the first 50 urbanized areas. See Table 21, Rank of Urbanized Areas in the United States by Population, page 1-87, U.S. Census (1970); and table 1 of § 90.635.


                            Critical Infrastructure Industry (CII). State, local government and non-government entities, including utilities, railroads, metropolitan transit systems, pipelines, private ambulances, volunteer fire departments, and not-for-profit organizations that offer emergency road services, providing private internal radio services provided these private internal radio services are used to protect safety of life, health, or property; and are not made commercially available to the public.


                            Dedicated Short-Range Communications Services (DSRCS). The use of radio techniques to transfer data over short distances between roadside and mobile units, between mobile units, and between portable and mobile units to perform operations related to the improvement of traffic flow, traffic safety, and other intelligent transportation service applications in a variety of environments. DSRCS systems may also transmit status and instructional messages related to the units involved.


                            Developmental operation. A specially licensed operation for the purpose of testing concepts in the use of radio appropriate to the radio services governed by this part.


                            Dispatch point. Any place from which radio messages can be originated under the supervision of a control point.


                            EA-based or EA license. A license authorizing the right to use a specified block of SMR or LMS spectrum within one of the 175 Economic Areas (EAs) as defined by the Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis. The EA Listings and the EA Map are available for public inspection at the Reference Information Center (Room CY-A257), 445 12th Steet, SW., Washington, DC 20554.


                            Economic Areas (EAs). A total of 175 licensing regions based on the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis Economic Areas defined as of February 1995, with the following exceptions:

(1) Guam and Northern Mariana Islands are licensed as a single EA-like area (identified as EA 173 in the 220 MHz Service);

(2) Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands are licensed as a single EA-like area (identified as EA 174 in the 220 MHz Service); and

(3) American Samoa is licensed as a single EA-like area (identified as EA 175 in the 220 MHz Service).


                            Effective radiated power (ERP). The power supplied to an antenna multiplied by the relative gain of the antenna in a given direction.


                            Emergency medical licensee. Persons or entities engaged in the provision of basic or advanced life support services on an ongoing basis that operate radio stations for transmission of communications essential for the delivery or rendition of emergency medical services for the provision of basic or advanced life support.


                            Enhanced Specialized Mobile Radio System (ESMR). A specialized mobile radio (SMR) system operating in the 800 MHz band which employs an 800 MHz cellular system as defined in this section.


                            Film and video production licensee. Persons primarily engaged in or providing direct technical support to the production, videotaping, or filming of motion pictures or television programs, such as movies, programs, news programs, special events, educational programs, or training films, regardless of whether the productions are prepared primarily for final exhibition at theatrical outlets or on television or for distribution through other mass communications outlets.


                            Fire licensee. Any territory, possession, state, city, county, town, or similar governmental entity, and persons or organizations charged with specific fire protection activities that operate radio stations for transmission of communications essential to official fire activities.


                            Fixed relay station. A station at a specified site used to communicate with another station at another specified site.


                            Forest products licensee. Persons primarily engaged in tree logging, tree farming, or related woods operations, including related hauling activities, if the hauling activities are performed under contract to, and exclusively for, persons engaged in woods operations or engaged in manufacturing lumber, plywood, hardboard, or pulp and paper products from wood fiber.


                            Forward links. Transmissions in the frequency bands specified in § 90.357(a) and used to control and interrogate the mobile units to be located by multilateration LMS systems.


                            Frequency coordination. The process of obtaining the recommendation of a frequency coordinator for a frequency(ies) that will most effectively meet the applicant's needs while minimizing interference to licensees already operating within a given frequency band.


                            Frequency coordinator. An entity or organization that has been certified by the Commission to recommend frequencies for use by licensees in the Private Land Mobile Radio Services.


                            Geographic center. The geographic center of an urbanized area is defined by the coordinates given at table 1 of § 90.635.


                            Geophysical telemetry. Telemetry involving the simultaneous transmission of seismic data from numerous locations to a central receiver and digital recording unit.


                            Harmful interference. For the purposes of resolving conflicts between stations operating under this part, any emission, radiation, or induction which specifically degrades, obstructs, or interrupts the service provided by such stations.


                            Interconnection. Connection through automatic or manual means of private land mobile radio stations with the facilities of the public switched telephone network to permit the transmission of messages or signals between points in the wireline or radio network of a public telephone company and persons served by private land mobile radio stations. Wireline or radio circuits or links furnished by common carriers, which are used by licensees or other authorized persons for transmitter control (including dial-up transmitter control circuits) or as an integral part of an authorized, private, internal system of communication or as an integral part of dispatch point circuits in a private land mobile radio station are not considered to be interconnection for purposes of this rule part.


                            Internal system. An internal system of communication is one in which all messages are transmitted between the fixed operating positions located on premises controlled by the licensee and the associated mobile stations or paging receivers of the licensee. (See subpart O).


                            Interoperability. An essential communication link within public safety and public service wireless communications systems which permits units from two or more different entities to interact with one another and to exchange information according to a prescribed method in order to achieve predictable results.


                            Itinerant operation. Operation of a radio station at unspecified locations for varying periods of time.


                            Land mobile radio service. A mobile service between base stations and land mobile stations, or between land mobile stations.


                            Land mobile radio system. A regularly interacting group of base, mobile and associated control and fixed relay stations intended to provide land mobile radio communications service over a single area of operation.


                            Land station. A station in the mobile service not intended to be used while in motion. [As used in this part, the term may be used to describe a base, control, fixed, operational fixed or fixed relay station, or any such station authorized to operate in the “temporary” mode.]


                            Line A. An imaginary line within the U.S., approximately paralleling the U.S.-Canadian border, north of which Commission coordination with the Canadian authorities in the assignment of frequencies is generally required. It begins at Aberdeen, Washington, running by great circle arc to the intersection of 48° N., 120° W., then along parallel 48° N., to the intersection of 95° W., thence by great circle arc through the southernmost point of Duluth, Minnesota, thence by great circle arc to 45° N., 85° W., thence southward along meridian 85° W. to its intersection with parallel 41° N., to its intersection with meridian 82° W., thence by great circle arc through the southernmost point of Bangor, Maine, thence by great circle arc through the southernmost of Searsport, Maine, at which point it terminates.


                            Line C. An imaginary line in Alaska approximately paralleling the border with Canada, East of which Commission coordination with Canadian authorities in the assignment of frequencies is generally required. It begins at the intersection of 70° N., 144° W., thence by great circle arc to the intersection of 60° N., 143° W., thence by great circle arc so as to include all the Alaskan Panhandle.


                            Location and Monitoring Service (LMS). The use of non-voice signaling methods to locate or monitor mobile radio units. LMS systems may transmit and receive voice and non-voice status and instructional information related to such units.


                            Major trading areas. Service areas based on the Rand McNally 1992 Commercial Atlas & Marketing Guide, 123rd Edition, at pages 38-39, with the following exceptions and additions:

(a) Alaska is separated from the Seattle MTA and is licensed separately.
                          

(b) Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands are licensed as a single MTA-like area.

(c) Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands are licensed as a single MTA-like area.

(d) American Samoa is licensed as a single MTA-like area.


                            Manufacturers licensee. Persons primarily engaged in any of the following manufacturing activities:

(1) The mechanical or chemical transformation of substances into new products within such establishments as plants, factories, shipyards, or mills which employ, in that process, powerdriven machines and materials-handling equipment;

(2) The assembly of components of manufactured products within such establishments as plants, factories, shipyards, or mills where the new product is neither a new structure nor other fixed improvement. Establishments primarily engaged in the wholesale or retail trade, or in service activities, even though they fabricate or assemble any or all the products or commodities handled, are not included in this category; or

(3) The providing of supporting services or materials by a corporation to its parent corporation, to another subsidiary of its parent or to its own subsidiary, where such supporting services or materials are directly related to those regular activities of such parent or subsidiary which are eligible under paragraphs (1) or (2) of this definition.


                            Meteor burst communications. Communications by the propagation of radio signals reflected off ionized meteor trails.


                            Mobile relay station. A base station in the mobile service authorized to retransmit automatically on a mobile service frequency communications which originate on the transmitting frequency of the mobile station.


                            Mobile repeater station. A mobile station authorized to retransmit automatically on a mobile service frequency, communications to or from hand-carried transmitters.


                            Mobile service. A service of radio-communication between mobile and base stations, or between mobile stations.


                            Mobile station. A station in the mobile service intended to be used while in motion or during halts at unspecified points. This includes hand carried transmitters.


                            Motor carrier licensee. Persons primarily engaged in providing a common or contract motor carrier transportation service in any of the following activities: Provided, however, that motor vehicles used as taxicabs, livery vehicles, or school buses, and motor vehicles used for sightseeing or special charter purposes, shall not be included within the meaning of this term. For purposes of this definition, an urban area is defined as being one or more contiguous, incorporated or unincorporated cities, boroughs, towns, or villages, having an aggregate population of 2,500 or more persons.

(1) The transportation of passengers between urban areas;

(2) The transportation of property between urban areas;

(3) The transportation of passengers within a single urban area; or

(4) The transportation, local distribution or collection of property within a single urban area.


                            MTA-based license or MTA license. A license authorizing the right to use a specified block of SMR spectrum within one of the 51 Major Trading Areas (“MTAs”), as embodied in Rand McNally's Trading Area System MTA Diskette and geographically represented in the map contained in Rand McNally's Commercial Atlas & Marketing Guide (the “MTA Map”). The MTA Listings, the MTA Map and the Rand McNally/AMTA license agreement are available for public inspection at the Reference Information Center in the Consumer and Governmental Affairs Bureau.


                            Multilateration LMS system. A system that is designed to locate vehicles or other objects by measuring the difference of time of arrival, or difference in phase, of signals transmitted from a unit to a number of fixed points or from a number of fixed points to the unit to be located.


                            Mutually exclusive application. Two or more pending applications are mutually exclusive if the grant of one application would effectively preclude the grant of one or more of the others under Commission rules governing the services involved.


                            Network assets holder. The Network Assets Holder is a Special Purpose Bankruptcy Remote Entity that is formed to hold the assets of the shared wireless broadband network associated with the 700 MHz Public/Private Partnership, in accordance with the terms of the Network Sharing Agreement, such other agreements as the Commission may require or allow, and the Commission's rules.


                            Network Sharing Agreement (NSA). An agreement entered into between the winning bidder, the Upper 700 MHz D Block licensee, the Network Assets Holder, the Operating Company, the Public Safety Broadband Licensee, and any other related entities that the Commission may require or allow regarding the shared wireless broadband network associated with the 700 MHz Public/Private Partnership that will operate on the 758-763 MHz and 788-793 MHz bands and the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands.


                            Non-multilateration LMS System. A system that employs any of a number of non-multilateration technologies to transmit information to and/or from vehicular units.


                            On-Board unit (OBU). An On-Board Unit is a DSRCS transceiver that is normally mounted in or on a vehicle, or which in some instances may be a portable unit. An OBU can be operational while a vehicle or person is either mobile or stationary. The OBUs receive and contend for time to transmit on one or more radio frequency (RF) channels. Except where specifically excluded, OBU operation is permitted wherever vehicle operation or human passage is permitted. The OBUs mounted in vehicles are licensed by rule under part 95 of this chapter and communicate with Roadside Units (RSUs) and other OBUs. Portable OBUs are also licensed by rule under part 95 of this chapter. OBU operations in the Unlicensed National Information Infrastructure (UNII) Bands follow the rules in those bands.


                            Operating company. The Operating Company is a Special Purpose Bankruptcy Remote Entity that is formed to build and operate the shared wireless broadband network associated with the 700 MHz Public/Private Partnership, in accordance with the terms of the Network Sharing Agreement, such other agreements as the Commission may require or allow, and the Commission's rules.


                            Operational fixed station. A fixed station, not open to public correspondence, operated by, and for the sole use of those agencies operating their own radio-communication facilities in the Public Safety, Industrial, Land Transportation, Marine, or Aviation Radio Services. (This includes all stations in the fixed service under this part.)


                            Output power. The radio frequency output power of a transmitter's final radio frequency stage as measured at the output terminal while connected to a load of the impedance recommended by the manufacturer.


                            Paging. A one-way communications service from a base station to mobile or fixed receivers that provide signaling or information transfer by such means as tone, tone-voice, tactile, optical readout, etc.


                            Person. An individual, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust or corporation.


                            Petroleum licensee. Persons primarily engaged in prospecting for, producing, collecting, refining, or transporting by means of pipeline, petroleum or petroleum products (including natural gas).


                            Police licensee. Any territory, possession, state, city, county, town, or similar governmental entity including a governmental institution authorized by law to provide its own police protection that operate radio stations for transmission of communications essential to official police activities.


                            Power licensee. Persons primarily engaged in any of the following activities:

(1) The generation, transmission, or distribution of electrical energy for use by the general public or by the members of a cooperative organization;

(2) The distribution of manufactured or natural gas by means of pipe line, for use by the general public or by the members of a cooperative organization, or, in a combination of that activity with the production, transmission or storage of manufactured or natural gas preparatory to such distribution;
                          

(3) The distribution of steam by means of pipeline or, of water by means of pipeline, canal, or open ditch, for use by the general public or by the members of a cooperative organization, or in a combination of that activity with the collection, transmission, storage, or purification of water or the generation of steam preparatory to such distribution; or

(4) The providing of a supporting service by a corporation directly related to activities of its parent corporation, of another subsidiary of the same parent, or of its own subsidiary, where the party served is regularly engaged in any of the activities set forth in this definition.


                            Private carrier. An entity licensed in the private services and authorized to provide communications service to other private services on a commercial basis.


                            Public safety broadband license. The Public Safety Broadband License authorizes public safety broadband services in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands on a primary basis.


                            Public safety broadband licensee. The licensee of the Public Safety Broadband License in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands.


                            Public safety broadband network operator. A Public Safety Network Operator is a public safety entity that is authorized by lease or other permitted mechanism under the Public Safety Broadband License to operate a public safety broadband network in the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands.


                            Radio call box. A transmitter used by the public to request fire, police, medical, road service, or other emergency assistance.


                            Radio teleprinting. Radio transmissions to a printing telegraphic instrument having a signal-actuated mechanism for automatically printing received messages.


                            Radiodetermination. The determination of position, or the obtaining of information relating to position, by means of the propagation of radio waves.


                            Radiofacsimile. A system of radio-communication for the transmission of fixed images, with or without half-tones, with a view to their reproduction in a permanent form.


                            Radiolocation. Radiodetermination used for purposes other than those of radionavigation.


                            Radionavigation. Radiodetermination used for the purposes of navigation, including obstruction warning.


                            Railroad licensee. Railroad common carriers which are regularly engaged in the transportation of passengers or property when such passengers or property are transported over all or part of their route by railroad.


                            Regional Economic Area Groupings (REAGs). The six geographic areas for Regional licensing in the 220-222 MHz band, based on the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis Economic Areas (see 60 FR 13114 (March 10, 1995)) defined as of February 1995, and specified as follows:
                          


                            Regional license. A license authorizing the right to use a specified block of 220-222 MHz spectrum within one of six Regional Economic Area Groupings (REAGs).


                            Relay press licensee. Persons primarily engaged in the publication of a newspaper or in the operation of an established press association.


                            Roadside unit (RSU). A Roadside Unit is a DSRC transceiver that is mounted along a road or pedestrian passageway. An RSU may also be mounted on a vehicle or is hand carried, but it may only operate when the vehicle or hand-carried unit is stationary. Furthermore, an RSU operating under this part is restricted to the location where it is licensed to operate. However, portable or hand-held RSUs are permitted to operate where they do not interfere with a site-licensed operation. A RSU broadcasts data to OBUs or exchanges data with OBUs in its communications zone. An RSU also provides channel assignments and operating instructions to OBUs in its communications zone, when required.


                            Roadway bed surface. For DSRCS, the road surface at ground level.


                            Secondary operation. Radio communications which may not cause interference to operations authorized on a primary basis and which are not protected from interference from those primary operations.


                            Service availability. The use of a public safety broadband network on a day-to-day basis for operational purposes by at least fifty users.


                            Shared wireless broadband network. Wireless broadband network associated with the 700 MHz Band Public/Private Partnership that operates on the 758-763 MHz and 788-793 MHz bands and the 763-768 MHz and 793-798 MHz bands pursuant to the terms of the Network Sharing Agreement, such other agreements as the Commission may require or allow, and the Commission's rules.


                            Signal booster. A device at a fixed location which automatically receives, amplifies, and retransmits on a one-way or two-way basis, the signals received from base, fixed, mobile, and portable stations, with no change in frequency or authorized bandwidth. A signal booster may be either narrowband (Class A), in which case the booster amplifies only those discrete frequencies intended to be retransmitted, or broadband (Class B), in which case all signals within the passband of the signal booster filter are amplified.


                            SMSA (Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area). A city of 50,000 or more population and the surrounding counties.


                            Special industrial licensee. Persons regularly engaged in any of the following activities:

(1) The operation of farms, ranches, or similar land areas, for the quantity production of crops or plants; vines or trees (excluding forestry operations); or for the keeping, grazing or feeding of livestock for animal products, animal increase, or value enhancement;

(2) Plowing, soil conditioning, seeding, fertilizing, or harvesting for agricultural activities;

(3) Spraying or dusting of insecticides, herbicides, or fungicides, in areas other than enclosed structures;

(4) Livestock breeding service;

(5) The operation of a commercial business regularly engaged in the construction of roads, bridges, sewer systems, pipelines, airfields, or water, oil, gas, or power production, collection, or distribution systems. The construction of buildings is not included in this category;

(6) The operation of mines for the recovery of solid fuels, minerals, metal, rock, sand and gravel from the earth or the sea, including the exploration for and development of mining properties;

(7) Maintaining, patrolling or repairing gas or liquid transmission pipelines, tank cars, water or waste disposal wells, industrial storage tanks, or distribution systems of public utilities;

(8) Acidizing, cementing, logging, perforating, or shooting activities, and services of a similar nature incident to the drilling of new oil or gas wells, or the maintenance of production from established wells;

(9) Supplying chemicals, mud, tools, pipe, and other materials or equipment unique to the petroleum and gas production industry, as the primary activity of the applicant if delivery, installation or application of these materials requires the use of specifically fitted conveyances;

(10) The delivery of ice or fuel to the consumer for heating, lighting, refrigeration or power generation purposes, by means other than pipelines or railroads when such products are not to be resold following their delivery; or

(11) The delivery and pouring of ready mixed concrete or hot asphalt mix.


                            Special purpose bankruptcy remote entity. A “special purpose entity” is a legal entity created for a special limited purpose, in this context primarily to hold the Upper 700 MHz D Block license or the network assets, or to conduct the construction or operation of the Shared Wireless Broadband Network associated with the 700 MHz Public/Private Partnership. A special purpose entity is “bankruptcy remote” if that entity is unlikely to become insolvent as a result of its own activities, is adequately insulated from the consequences of a related party's insolvency, and contains certain characteristics which enhance the likelihood that it will not become the subject of an insolvency proceeding.


                            Specialized Mobile Radio system. A radio system in which licensees provide land mobile communications services (other than radiolocation services) in the 800 MHz and 900 MHz bands on a commercial basis to entities eligible to be licensed under this part, Federal Government entities, and individuals.


                            State. Any of the 50 United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and Guam.


                            Station authorization. A license issued by the Commission for the operation of a radio station.


                            Taxicab licensee. Persons regularly engaged in furnishing to the public for hire a nonscheduled passenger land transportation service (which may also include the occasional transport of small items of property) not operated over a regular route or between established terminals.


                            Telecommand. The transmission of non-voice signals for the purpose of remotely controlling a device.


                            Telemetering (also telemetry). The transmission of non-voice signals for the purpose of automatically indicating or recording measurements at a distance from the measuring instrument.


                            Telephone maintenance licensee. Communications common carriers engaged in the provision of landline local exchange telephone service, or inter-exchange communications service, and radio communications common carriers authorized under part 21 of this chapter. Resellers that do not own or control transmission facilities are not included in this category.


                            Travelers' information station. A base station in the Local Government Radio Service used to transmit non-commercial, voice information pertaining to traffic and road conditions, traffic hazard and traveler advisories, directions, availability of lodging, rest stops, and service stations, and descriptions of local points of interest.


                            Trunk group. All of the trunks of a given type of characteristic that extend between two switching points.


                            Trunk (telephony). A one or two-way channel provided as a common traffic artery between switching equipment.


                            Trunked radio system. A radio system employing technology that provides the ability to search two or more available channels and automatically assign a user an open channel.


                            Universal Licensing System (ULS). The consolidated database, application filing system and processing system for all Wireless Telecommunications Services. The ULS offers Wireless Telecommunications Bureau (WTB) applicants and the general public electronic filing of all applications requests, and full public access to all WTB licensing data.


                            Upper 700 MHz D Block license. The Upper 700 MHz D Block license authorizes services in the 758-763 MHz and 788-793 MHz bands.


                            Upper 700 MHz D Block licensee. The Special Purpose Bankruptcy Remote Entity to which the Upper 700 MHz D Block license must be transferred upon execution of the Network Sharing Agreement. References herein to the rights and obligations of the Upper 700 MHz D Block licensee include the exercise or discharge of such rights or obligations, respectively, by related entities as are provided for in the NSA or otherwise as authorized by the Commission.


                            Urbanized area. A city and the surrounding closely settled territories.

