(a) Phase II applications for authorizations on Channels 166 through 170 and Channels 181 through 185 will be processed on a first-come, first-served basis. When multiple applications are filed on the same day for these frequencies in the same geographic area, and insufficient frequencies are available to grant all applications (i.e., if all applications were granted, violation of the station separation provisions of ยง 90.723(k) of this part would result), these applications will be considered mutually exclusive.

(1) All applications will first be considered to determine whether they are substantially complete and acceptable for filing. If so, they will be assigned a file number and put in pending status. If not, they will be dismissed.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in this section, all applications in pending status will be processed in the order in which they are received, determined by the date on which the application was received by the Commission in its Gettysburg, Pennsylvania office (or the address set forth at ยง 1.1102 of this chapter for applications requiring the fees established by part 1, subpart G of this chapter).

(3) Each application that is accepted for filing will then be reviewed to determine whether it can be granted. Frequencies will be assigned by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง 90.723.

(4) An application which is dismissed will lose its place in the processing line.

(b) All applications for Channels 161 through 165 that comply with the applicable rules of this part shall be granted. Licensees operating on such channels shall cooperate in the selection and use of frequencies and resolve any instances of interference in accordance with the provisions of ยง 90.173.

(c) Phase II applications for authorization on all non-Government channels other than Channels 161 through 170 and 181 through 185 shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of subpart W of this part.

