(a) Ultimate issue. The ultimate issue in comparative renewal proceedings will be to determine, in light of the evidence adduced in the proceeding, what disposition of the applications would best serve the public interest, convenience and necessity.
                                    

(b) Renewal expectancies. The most important comparative factor to be considered in a comparative 900 MHz SMR renewal proceeding is a major preference, commonly referred to as a “renewal expectancy”.

(1) The 900 MHz SMR renewal applicant involved in a comparative renewal proceeding will receive a renewal expectancy, if its past record for the relevant license period demonstrates that:

(i) The renewal applicant has provided “substantial” service during its past license term. “Substantial” service is defined as service which is sound, favorable, and substantially above a level of mediocre service which just might minimally warrant renewal; and

(ii) The renewal applicant has substantially complied with applicable FCC rules, policies and the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.

(2) In order to establish its right to a renewal expectancy, a 900 MHz renewal applicant involved in a comparative renewal proceeding must submit a showing explaining why it should receive a renewal expectancy. At a minimum, this showing must include:

(i) A description of its current service in terms of geographic coverage and population served;

(ii) An explanation of its record of expansion, including a timetable of the construction of new base sites to meet changes in demand for SMR service;

(iii) A description of its investments in its 900 MHz SMR system; and

(iv) Copies of all FCC orders finding the licensee to have violated the Communications Act or any FCC rule or policy; and a list of any pending proceedings that relate to any matter described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(3) In making its showing of entitlement to a renewal expectancy, a renewal applicant may claim credit for any system modification applications that were pending on the date it filed its renewal application. Such credit will not be allowed if the modification application is dismissed or denied.

