(a) Sequencing. The Wireless Telecommunications Bureau will establish and may vary the sequence in which 800 MHz SMR licenses for Spectrum Blocks A through V will be auctioned.

(b) Grouping. (1) All EA licenses for Spectrum Blocks A through V will be auctioned simultaneously, unless the Wireless Telecommunications Bureau announces, by Public Notice prior to the auction, an alternative method of grouping these licenses for auction.

(2) Spectrum blocks D through V. All EA licenses for Spectrum Blocks D through V will be auctioned by the following Regions:

(i) Region 1 (Northeast): The Northeast Region consists of the following MTAs: Boston-Providence, Buffalo-Rochester, New York, Philadelphia, and Pittsburgh.

(ii) Region 2 (South): The South Region consists of the following MTAs: Atlanta, Charlotte-Greensboro-Greenville-Raleigh, Jacksonville, Knoxville, Louisville-Lexington-Evansville, Nashville, Miami-Fort Lauderdale, Richmond-Norfolk, Tampa-St. Petersburg-Orlando, and Washington-Baltimore; and, Puerto Rico and United States Virgin Islands.

(iii) Region 3 (Midwest): The Midwest Region consists of the following MTAs: Chicago, Cincinnati-Dayton, Cleveland, Columbus, Des Moines-Quad Cities, Detroit, Indianapolis, Milwaukee, Minneapolis-St. Paul, and Omaha.

(iv) Region 4 (Central): The Central Region consists of the following MTAs: Birmingham, Dallas-Fort Worth, Denver, El Paso-Albuquerque, Houston, Kansas City, Little Rock, Memphis-Jackson, New Orleans-Baton Rouge, Oklahoma City, San Antonio, St. Louis, Tulsa, and Wichita.

(v) Region 5 (West): The West Region consists of the following MTAs: Honolulu, Los Angeles-San Diego, Phoenix, Portland, Salt Lake City, San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, Seattle (including Alaska), and Spokane-Billings; and, American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands.

