(a) Except for the purposes of testing and for demonstrations to health care professionals, MedRadio programmer/control transmitters may transmit only non-voice data containing operational, diagnostic and therapeutic information associated with a medical implant device or medical body-worn device that has been implanted or placed on the person by or under the direction of a duly authorized health care professional.

(b) Except as provided in § 95.627(b) no MedRadio implant or body-worn transmitter shall transmit except in response to a transmission from a MedRadio programmer/control transmitter or in response to a non-radio frequency actuation signal generated by a device external to the body with respect to which the MedRadio implant or body-worn transmitter is used.

(c) MedRadio programmer/control transmitters may be interconnected with other telecommunications systems including the public switched telephone network.

(d) For the purpose of facilitating MedRadio system operation during a MedRadio communications session, as defined in § 95.627, MedRadio transmitters in the 401-406 MHz band may transmit in accordance with the provisions of § 95.627(a) for no more than 5 seconds without the communications of data; MedRadio transmitters may transmit in accordance with the provisions of § 95.627(b)(2) and (b)(3) for no more than 3.6 seconds in total within a one hour time period; and MedRadio transmitters may transmit in accordance with the provisions of § 95.627(b)(4) for no more than 360 milliseconds in total within a one hour time period.

(e) MedRadio programmer/control transmitters may not be used to relay information in the 401-406 MHz band to a receiver that is not included with a medical implant or medical body-worn device. Wireless retransmission of information intended to be transmitted by a MedRadio programmer/control transmitter or information received from a medical implant or medical body-worn transmitter shall be performed using other radio services that operate in spectrum outside of the 401-406 MHz band.

(f) MedRadio programmer/control transmitters and medical implant transmitters may not be used to relay information in the 413-419 MHz, 426-432 MHz, 438-444 MHz, and 451-457 MHz bands to a receiver that is not part of the same Medical Micropower Network. Wireless retransmission of information to a receiver that is not part of the same Medical Micropower Network must be performed using other radio services that operate in spectrum outside of the 413-419 MHz, 426-432 MHz, 438-444 MHz, and 451-457 MHz bands. Not withstanding the above restrictions, a MedRadio programmer/control transmitter of an MMN may communicate with the MedRadio programmer/control transmitter of another MMN to coordinate transmissions so as to avoid interference between the two MMNs.

(g) MedRadio programmer/control transmitters operating in the 413-419 MHz, 426-432 MHz, 438-444 MHz, and 451-457 MHz bands shall not transmit with a duty cycle greater than 3 percent.

