(a) Field strength limits. (1) In the 608-614 MHz band, the maximum allowable field strength is 200 mV/m, as measured at a distance of 3 meters, using measuring instrumentation with a CISPR quasi-peak detector.

(2) In the 1395-1400 MHz and 1427-1432 MHz bands, the maximum allowable field strength is 740 mV/m, as measured at a distance of 3 meters, using measuring equipment with an averaging detector and a 1MHz measurement bandwidth.

(b) Undesired emissions. (1) Out-of-band emissions below 960 MHz are limited to 200 microvolts/meter, as measured at a distance of 3 meters, using measuring instrumentation with a CISPR quasi-peak detector.

(2) Out-of-band emissions above 960 MHz are limited to 500 microvolts/meter as measured at a distance of 3 meters, using measuring equipment with an averaging detector and a 1 MHz measurement bandwidth.

(c) Emission types. A wireless medical telemetry device may transmit any emission type appropriate for communications in this service, except for video and voice. Waveforms such as electrocardiograms (ECGs) are not considered video.

(d) Channel use. (1) In the 1395-1400 MHz and 1427-1432 MHz bands, no specific channels are specified. Wireless medical telemetry devices may operate on any channel within the bands authorized for wireless medical telemetry use in this part.

(2) In the 608-614 MHz band, wireless medical telemetry devices utilizing broadband technologies such as spread spectrum shall be capable of operating within one or more of the following channels of 1.5 MHz each, up to a maximum of 6 MHz, and shall operate on the minimum number of channels necessary to avoid harmful interference to any other wireless medical telemetry devices.
                                    

(3) Channel usage is on a co-primary shared basis only, and channels will not be assigned for the exclusive use of any entity.

(4) Authorized health care providers, in conjunction with the equipment manufacturers, must cooperate in the selection and use of frequencies in order to reduce the potential for interference with other wireless medical telemetry devices, or other co-primary users. Operations in the 608-614 MHz band (television channel 37) are not protected from adjacent band interference from broadcast television operating on channels 36 and 38.

(e) Frequency stability. Manufacturers of wireless medical telemetry devices are responsible for ensuring frequency stability such that an emission is maintained within the band of operation under all of the manufacturer's specified conditions.

