(a) The following table indicates the channel designations of frequencies available for assignment to eligible applicants within the 5850-5925 MHz band for On-Board Units (OBUs): 1
                                    

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, non-reserve DSRCS channels are available on a shared basis only for use in accordance with the Commission's rules. All licensees shall cooperate in the selection and use of channels in order to reduce interference. This includes monitoring for communications in progress and any other measures as may be necessary to minimize interference. Licensees suffering or causing harmful interference within a communications zone are expected to cooperate and resolve this problem by mutually satisfactory arrangements. If the licensees are unable to do so, the Commission may impose restrictions, including specifying the transmitter power, antenna height and direction, additional filtering, or area or hours of operation of the stations concerned. Further, the use of any channel at a given geographical location may be denied when, in the judgment of the Commission, its use at that location is not in the public interest; the use of any channel may be restricted as to specified geographical areas, maximum power, or such other operating conditions, contained in this part or in the station authorization.

(c) Safety/public safety priority. The following access priority governs all DSRCS operations:

(1) Communications involving the safety of life have access priority over all other DSRCS communications;

(2) Subject to a control channel priority system management strategy (see ASTM E2213-03 DSRC Standard at ยง 4.1.1.2(4)), DSRCS communications involving public safety have access priority over all other DSRC communications not listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. On-Board Units (OBUs) operated by state or local governmental entities are presumptively engaged in public safety priority communications.

(d) Non-priority communications. DSRCS communications not listed in paragraph (c) of this section, are non-priority communications. If a dispute arises concerning non-priority DSRCS-OBU communications with Roadside Units (RSUs), the provisions of ยง 90.377(e) and (f) of this chapter will apply. Disputes concerning non-priority DSRCS-OBU communications not associated with RSUs are governed by paragraph (b) of this section.

