(a) A station operator for an individual who is licensed in the GMRS (other than an employee of that individual) may communicate two-way voice messages concerning the licensee's personal or business activities (see ยง 95.179).

(b) [Reserved]

(c) A station operator for any entity other than an individual licensed in the GMRS may communicate two-way voice messages concerning the licensee's business activities (see ยง 95.179). An employee for an entity other than an individual licensed in the GMRS may, as a station operator, communicate two-way voice messages while acting within the scope of his/her employment.

(d) A station operator for any GMRS licensee may communicate two-way voice messages concerning:

(1) Emergencies (see ยง 95.143);

(2) Rendering assistance to a motorist; and

(3) Civil defense drills, if the responsible agency requests assistance.

(e) All messages must be in plain language (without codes or hidden meanings). They may be in a foreign language, except for call signs (see ยง 95.119).

(f) A station operator may communicate tone messages for purposes of identification or transmitter control in a control link.

(g) A station operator may communicate a selective calling tone or tone operated squelch only in conjunction with a voice communication. If the tone is subaudible (300 Hertz or less) it may be communicated during the entire voice message. If the tone is audible (more than 300 Hertz) it may be communicated for no more than 15 seconds at a time.

(h) A station operator may communicate a one-way voice page to a paging receiver. A selective calling tone or tone operated squelch may be used in conjunction with a voice page, as prescribed in paragraph (g) of this section. A station operator may not communicate a tone-only page (tones communicated in order to find, summon or notify someone).

