(a) If your R/C station is located on premises controlled by the Department of Defense, you may be required to comply with additional regulations imposed by the commanding officer of the installation.

(b) If your R/C station will be constructed on an environmental sensitive site, or will be operated in such a manner as to raise environmental problems, under ยง 1.1307 of this chapter, you must provide an environmental assessment, as set forth in ยง 1.1311 of this chapter, and undergo environmental review ยง 1.1312 of this chapter, before commencement of construction.

(c) Anyone intending to operate an R/C station on the islands of Puerto Rico, Desecheo, Mona, Vieques, and Culebra in a manner that could pose an interference threat to the Arecibo Observatory shall notify the Interference Office, Arecibo Observatory, HC3 Box 53995, Arecibo, Puerto Rico 00612, in writing or electronically, of the location of the unit. Operators may wish to consult interference guidelines, which will be provided by Cornell University. Operators who choose to transmit information electronically should e-mail to: prcz@naic.edu.
                                    

(1) The notification to the Interference Office, Arecibo Observatory shall be made 45 days prior to commencing operation of the unit. The notification shall state the geographical coordinates of the unit.

(2) After receipt of such notifications, the Commission will allow the Arecibo Observatory a period of 20 days for comments or objections. The operator will be required to make reasonable efforts in order to resolve or mitigate any potential interference problem with the Arecibo Observatory. If the Commission determines that an operator has satisfied its responsibility to make reasonable efforts to protect the Observatory from interference, the unit may be allowed to operate.

