(a) Your R/C station may transmit only on the following channels (frequencies):

(1) The following channels may be used to operate any kind of device (any object or apparatus, except an R/C transmitter), including a model aircraft device (any small imitation of an aircraft) or a model surface craft device (any small imitation of a boat, car or vehicle for carrying people or objects, except aircraft): 26.995, 27.045, 27.095, 27.145, 27.195 and 27.255 MHz.

(2) The following channels may only be used to operate a model aircraft device:
                                    

(3) The following channels may only be used to operate a model surface craft devices:
                                    

(b) You must share the channels with other R/C stations. You must cooperate in the selection and use of the channels. You must share the Channel 27.255 MHz with stations in other radio services. There is no protection from interference on any of these channels.

(c) Your R/C station may not transmit simultaneously on more than one channel in the 72-76 MHz band when your operation would cause harmful interference to the operation of other R/C stations.

(d) Your R/C station must stop transmitting if it interferes with:

(1) Authorized radio operations in the 72-76 MHz band; or

(2) Television reception on TV Channels 4 or 5.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) Stations in the 26-27 MHz range are not afforded any protection from interference caused by the operation of industrial, scientific of medical devices. Such stations also operate on a shared basis with other stations in the Personal Radio Services.

(g) Stations in the 72-76 MHz range are subject to the condition that inteference will not be caused to the remote control of industrial equipment operating on the same or adjacent frequencies or to the reception of television transmissions on Channels 4 and 5. These frequencies are not afforded any protection from interference due to the operation of fixed and mobile stations in other services assigned to the same or adjacent frequencies.

