The Citizens Band Radio Services are:

(a) The Citizens Band (CB) Radio Service—a private, two-way, short-distance voice communications service for personal or business activities of the general public. The CB Radio Service may also be used for voice paging.

(b) The Family Radio Service (FRS)—a private, two-way, very short-distance voice and data communications service for facilitating family and group activities. The rules for this service are contained in subpart B of this part.

(c) The Low Power Radio Service (LPRS)—a private, short-distance communication service providing auditory assistance to persons with disabilities, persons who require language translation, and persons in educational settings, health care assistance to the ill, law enforcement tracking services in cooperation with law enforcement, and point-to-point network control communications for Automated Marine Telecommunications System (AMTS) coast stations licensed under part 80 of this chapter. The rules for this service are listed under subpart G of this part. Two-way voice communications are prohibited.

(d) The Medical Device Radiocommunication Service (MedRadio)—an ultra-low power radio service, for the transmission of non-voice data for the purpose of facilitating diagnostic and/or therapeutic functions involving implanted and body-worn medical devices. The rules for this service are contained in subpart I of this part.
                                    

(e) The Wireless Medical Telemetry Service (WMTS)—a private, short distance data communication service for the transmission of patient medical information to a central monitoring location in a hospital or other medical facility. Voice and video communications are prohibited. Waveforms such as electrocardiograms (ECGs) are not considered video. The rules for this service are contained in subpart H of this part.

(f) The Multi-Use Radio Service (MURS)—a private, two-way, short-distance voice or data communications service for personal or business activities of the general public. The rules for this service are contained in subpart J of this part.

(g) Dedicated Short-Range Communications Service On-Board Units (DSRCS-OBUs). The rules for this service are contained in subpart L of this part. DSRCS-OBUs may communicate with DSRCS Roadside Units (RSUs), which are authorized under part 90 of this chapter. DSRCS, RSU, and OBU are defined in § 90.7 of this chapter.

