You are authorized to operate your CB station from:

(a) Within or over any area of the world where radio services are regulated by the FCC. Those areas are within the territorial limits of:

(1) The fifty United States.

(2) The District of Columbia.

(3) Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

(4) Navassa Island.

(5) United States Virgin Islands (50 islets and cays).

(6) American Samoa (seven islands).

(7) Baker Island.

(8) Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands.

(9) Guam Island.

(10) Howland Island.

(11) Jarvis Island.

(12) Johnston Island (Islets East, Johnston, North and Sand).
                                    

(13) Kingman Reef.

(14) Midway Island (Islets Eastern and Sand).

(15) Palmyra Island (more than 50 islets).

(16) Wake Island (Islets Peale, Wake and Wilkes).

(b) Any other area of the world, except within the territorial limits of areas where radio services are regulated by—

(1) An agency of the United States other than the FCC. (You are subject to its rules.)

(2) Any foreign government. (You are subject to its rules.)

(c) An aircraft or ship, with the permission of the captain, within or over any area of the world where radio services are regulated by the FCC or upon or over international waters. You must operate your CB station according to any applicable treaty to which the United States is a party.

(d) Anyone intending to operate a CB station on the islands of Puerto Rico, Desecheo, Mona, Vieques, and Culebra in a manner that could pose an interference threat to the Arecibo Observatory shall notify the Interference Office, Arecibo Observatory, HC3 Box 53995, Arecibo, Puerto Rico 00612, in writing or electronically, of the location of the unit. Operators may wish to consult interference guidelines, which will be provided by Cornell University. Operators who choose to transmit information electronically should e-mail to: prcz@naic.edu.
                                    

(1) The notification to the Interference Office, Arecibo Observatory shall be made 45 days prior to commencing operation of the unit. The notification shall state the geographical coordinates of the unit.

(2) After receipt of such notifications, the Commission will allow the Arecibo Observatory a period of 20 days for comments or objections. The operator will be required to make reasonable efforts in order to resolve or mitigate any potential interference problem with the Arecibo Observatory. If the Commission determines that an operator has satisfied its responsibility to make reasonable efforts to protect the Observatory from interference, the unit may be allowed to operate.

