(a) Each GMRS transmitter (a transmitter that operates or is intended to operate at a station authorized in the GMRS) must be certificated.

(b) Each R/C transmitter (a transmitter that operates or is intended to operate at a station authorized in the R/C) must be certificated, except one that transmits only in the 26-27 MHz frequency band and is crystal controlled (where the transmitted frequency is established by a crystal (a quartz piezo-electric element)).

(c) Each CB transmitter (a transmitter that operates or is intended to operate at a station authorized in the CB) must be certificated. No CB transmitter certificated pursuant to an application filed prior to September 10, 1976, shall be manufactured or marketed.

(d) Each FRS unit (a transmitter that operates or is intended to operate in the FRS) must be certified for use in the FRS in accordance with subpart J of part 2 of this chapter.
                                    

(e) Each Low Power Radio Service transmitter (a transmitter that operates or is intended to operate in the LPRS) must be certificated.

(f) Each Medical Device Radiocommunication Service (MedRadio) transmitter (a transmitter that operates or is intended to operate in the MedRadio service) must be certificated except for such transmitters that are not marketed for use in the United States, but which otherwise comply with the MedRadio Service technical requirements and are operated in the United States by individuals who have traveled to the United States from abroad.

(g) Each Multi-Use Radio Service transmitter (a transmitter that operates or is intended to operate in the MURS) must be certificated in accordance with subpart J of part 2 of this chapter, Provided however, that those radio units certificated as of November 12, 2002 need not be recertificated.

(h) Each Dedicated Short-Range Communications Service On-Board Unit (DSRCS-OBU) that operates or is intended to operate in the DSRCS (5.850-5.925 GHz) must be certified in accordance with subpart L of this part and subpart J of part 2 of this chapter.

