(a) In addition to the procedures in part 2, the following requirements apply to each transmitter both with and without the connection of all attachments acceptable for use with the transmitter, such as an external speaker, microphone, power cord, antenna, etc.

(b) The power of each unwanted emission shall be less than TP as specified in the applicable paragraphs listed in the following table:

(1) At least 25 dB (decibels) on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 50% up to and including 100% of the authorized bandwidth.

(2) At least 25 dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 50% up to and including 150% of the authorized bandwidth.

(3) At least 35 dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 100% up to and including 250% of the authorized bandwidth.

(4) At least 35 dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 150% up to and including 250% of the authorized bandwidth.

(5) At least 83 log10 (fd/5) dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by a displacement frequency (fd in kHz), of more than 5 kHz up to and including 10 kHz.

(6) At least 116 log10 (fd/6.1) dB, or if less, 50 + 10 log10 (T) dB, on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by a displacement frequency (fd in kHz), of more than 10 kHz up to and including 250% of the authorized bandwidth.

(7) At least 43 + 10 log10 (T) dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 250%.

(8) At least 53 + 10 log10 (T) dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 250%.

(9) At least 60 dB on any frequency twice or greater than twice the fundamental frequency.

(10) At least 45 dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 100% up to and including 125% of the authorized bandwidth.

(11) At least 55 dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 125% up to and including 250% of the authorized bandwidth.

(12) At least 56 + 10 log10 (T) dB on any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 250%.

(c) For transmitters designed to operate in the LPRS, emissions shall be attenuated in accordance with the following:

(1) Emissions for LPRS transmitters operating on standard band channels (25 kHz) shall be attenuated below the unmodulated carrier in accordance with the following:

(i) Emissions 12.5 kHz to 22.5 kHz away from the channel center frequency: at least 30 dB; and
                                    

(ii) Emissions more than 22.5 kHz away from the channel center frequency: at least 43 + 10log(carrier power in watts) dB.

(2) Emissions for LPRS transmitters operating on extra band channels (50 kHz) shall be attenuated below the unmodulated carrier in accordance with the following:

(i) Emissions 25 kHz to 35 kHz from the channel center frequency: at least 30 dB; and

(ii) Emissions more than 35 kHz away from the channel center frequency: at least 43 + 10log(carrier power in watts) dB.

(3) Emissions for LPRS transmitters operating on narrowband channels (5 kHz) shall be attenuated below the power (P) of the highest emission, measured in peak values, contained within the authorized bandwidth (4 kHz) in accordance with the following:

(i) On any frequency within the authorized bandwidth: Zero dB;

(ii) On any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by a displacement frequency (fd in kHz) of more than 2 kHz up to and including 3.75 kHz: The lesser of 30 + 20(fd-2) dB, or 55 + 10 log(P), or 65 dB; and

(iii) On any frequency beyond 3.75 kHz removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth: At least 55 + 10 log(P) dB.

(4) Emissions from AMTS transmitters using a single 250 kHz channel shall be attenuated below the unmodulated carrier in accordance with the following:

(i) Emissions from 125 kHz to 135 kHz away from the channel center frequency; at least 30 dB; and

(ii) Emissions more than 135 kHz away from the channel center frequency; at least 43 + 10log(carrier power in watts) dB.

(d) For transmitters designed to operate in the MedRadio service, emissions shall be attenuated in accordance with the following: (paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) pertain to MedRadio transmitters operating in the 402-405 MHz band; paragraphs (d)(6) through (d)(10) pertain to MedRadio transmitters operating in the 401-402 MHz or 405-406 MHz bands).

(1) Emissions from a MedRadio transmitter more than 250 kHz outside of the 402-405 MHz band shall be attenuated to a level no greater than the following field strength limits:

(2) The emission limits shown in the table of paragraph (d)(1) are based on measurements employing a CISPR quasi-peak detector except that above 1 GHz, the limit is based on measurements employing an average detector. Measurements above 1 GHz shall be performed using a minimum resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz. See also § 95.605.

(3) The emissions from a MedRadio transmitter must be measured to at least the tenth harmonic of the highest fundamental frequency designed to be emitted by the transmitter.

(4) Emissions within the 402-405 MHz band more than 150 kHz away from the center frequency of the spectrum the transmission is intended to occupy will be attenuated below the transmitter output power by at least 20 dB. Compliance with this limit is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a peak detector function with an instrument resolution bandwidth approximately equal to 1.0 percent of the emission bandwidth of the device under measurement.

(5) Emissions 250 kHz or less that are above or below the 402-405 MHz band will be attenuated below the maximum permitted output power by at least 20 dB. Compliance with this limit is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a peak detector function with an instrument resolution bandwidth approximately equal to 1.0 percent of the emission bandwidth of the device under measurement.

(6) Emissions from a MedRadio transmitter operating in the 401-402 MHz or 405-406 MHz bands that are more than 100 kHz outside of either the 401-402 MHz or 405-406 MHz bands, and all emissions from such transmitter in the band 406.000-406.100 MHz shall be attenuated to a level no greater than the following field strength limits:
                                    

(7) The emission limits shown in paragraph (d)(6) are based on measurements employing a CISPR quasi-peak detector except that above 1 GHz, the limit is based on measurements employing an average detector. Measurements above 1 GHz shall be performed using a minimum resolution bandwidth of 1 MHz. See also § 95.605.

(8) The emissions from a MedRadio transmitter operating in the MedRadio bands (between 401-402 MHz or 405-406 MHz) must be measured to at least the tenth harmonic of the highest fundamental frequency designed to be emitted by the transmitter.

(9) Emissions between 401-401.85 MHz or 405-406 MHz within the MedRadio bands that are more than 50 kHz away from the center frequency of the spectrum the transmission is intended to occupy (or more than 75 kHz away from the center frequency of MedRadio transmitters operating between 401.85-402 MHz) shall be attenuated below the transmitter output power by at least 20 dB. Compliance with this limit is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a peak detector function with an instrument resolution bandwidth approximately equal to 1.0 percent of the emission bandwidth of the device under measurement.

(10) Emissions 100 kHz or less below 401 MHz or above 406 MHz shall be attenuated below the maximum permitted output power by at least 20 dB. Compliance with this limit is based on the use of measurement instrumentation employing a peak detector function with an instrument resolution bandwidth approximately equal to 1.0 percent of the emission bandwidth of the device under measurement.

(e) For transmitters designed to operate in the MURS, transmitters shall comply with the following:

(1) Emission Mask 1—For transmitters designed to operate with a 12.5 kHz channel bandwidth, any emission must be attenuated below the power (P) of the highest emission contained within the authorized bandwidth as follows:

(i) On any frequency from the center of the authorized bandwidth fo to 5.625 kHz removed from fo: Zero dB.

(ii) On any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by a displacement frequency (fd in kHz) of more than 5.625 kHz but no more than 12.5 kHz: at least 7.27(fd−2.88 kHz) dB.

(iii) On any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by a displacement frequency (fd in kHz) of more than 12.5 kHz: at least 50 + 10 log (P) dB or 70 dB, whichever is the lesser attenuation.

(2) Emission Mask 2—For transmitters designed to operate with a 25 kHz channel bandwidth that are equipped with an audio low-pass filter, the power of any emission must be below the unmodulated carrier power (P) as follows:

(i) On any frequency removed from the assigned frequency by more than 50 percent, but not more than 100 percent of the authorized bandwidth: at least 25 dB.

(ii) On any frequency removed from the assigned frequency by more than 100 percent, but not more than 250 percent of the authorized bandwidth: at least 35 dB.

(iii) On any frequency removed from the assigned frequency by more than 250 percent of the authorized bandwidth: at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB.

(3) Emission Mask 3—For transmitters designed to operate with a 25 kHz channel bandwidth that are not equipped with an audio low-pass filter, the power of any emission must be attenuated below the unmodulated carrier output power (P) as follows:

(i) On any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by a displacement frequency (fd in kHz) of more than 5 kHz, but not more than 10 kHz: at least 83 log (fd/5) dB.

(ii) On any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by a displacement frequency (fd in kHz) of more than 10 kHz, but not more than 250 percent of the authorized bandwidth: at least 29 log (fd
                                    2/11) dB or 50 dB, whichever is the lesser attenuation.

(iii) On any frequency removed from the center of the authorized bandwidth by more than 250 percent of the authorized bandwidth: at least 43 + 10 log (P) dB.

(f) DSRCS-OBUs are governed under subpart L of this part.

