(a) No GMRS transmitter, under any condition of modulation, shall exceed:

(1) 50 W Carrier power (average TP during one unmodulated RF cycle) when transmitting emission type A1D, F1D, G1D, A3E, F3E or G3E.

(2) 50 W peak envelope TP when transmitting emission type H1D, J1D, R1D, H3E, J3E or R3E.

(b) No R/C transmitter, under any condition of modulation, shall exceed a carrier power or peak envelope TP (single-sideband only) of:

(1) 4 W in the 26-27 MHz frequency band, except on channel frequency 27.255 MHz;

(2) 25 W on channel frequency 27.255 MHz;

(3) 0.75 W in the 72-76 MHz frequency band.

(c) No CB transmitter, under any condition of modulation, shall exceed:

(1) 4 W Carrier power when transmitting emission type A1D or A3E;

(2) 12 W peak envelope TP when transmitting emission type H1D, J1D, R1D, H3E, J3E or R3E. Each CB transmitter which transmits emission type H3E, J3E or R3E must automatically prevent the TP from exceeding 12 W peak envelope TP or the manufacturer's rated peak envelope TP, whichever is less.

(d) No FRS unit, under any condition of modulation, shall exceed 0.500 W effective radiated power (ERP).

(e) The maximum transmitter output power authorized for LPRS stations is 100 mW.

(f) In the MedRadio Service:

(1) For transmitters operating in the 401-406 MHz band that are not excepted under § 95.627(b) from the frequency monitoring requirements of § 95.627(a), the maximum radiated power in any 300 kHz bandwidth by MedRadio transmitters operating at 402-405 MHz, or in any 100 kHz bandwidth by MedRadio transmitters operating at 401-402 MHz or 405-406 MHz shall not exceed 25 microwatts EIRP. For transmitters that are excepted under § 95.627(b) from the frequency monitoring requirements of § 95.627(a), the power radiated by any station operating in 402-405 MHz shall not exceed 100 nanowatts EIRP confined to a maximum total emission bandwidth of 300 kHz centered at 403.65 MHz, the power radiated by any station operating in 401-401.85 MHz or 405-406 MHz shall not exceed 250 nanowatts EIRP in any 100 kHz bandwidth and the power radiated by any station operating in 401.85-402 MHz shall not exceed 25 microwatts in the 150 kHz bandwidth. See §§ 95.633(e).

(2) For transmitters operating in 413-419 MHz, 426-432 MHz, 438-444 MHz, or 451-457 MHz bands, the peak EIRP over the frequency bands of operation shall not exceed the lesser of 1 mW or 10 log B—7.782 dBm, where B is the 20 dB emission bandwidth in MHz; and the peak power spectral density shall not exceed 800 microwatts per megahertz in any 1 megahertz band.

(3) The antenna associated with any MedRadio transmitter must be supplied with the transmitter and shall be considered part of the transmitter subject to equipment authorization. Compliance with these EIRP limits may be determined as set forth in § 95.627(g) or § 95.628(h), as applicable.

(g) The maximum field strength authorized for WMTS stations in the 608-614 MHz band is 200 mV/m, measured at 3 meters. For stations in the 1395-1400 MHz and 1427-1429.5 MHz bands, the maximum field strength is 740 mV/m, measured at 3 meters.

(h) No MURS unit, under any condition of modulation, shall exceed 2 Watts transmitter power output.

(i) DSRCS-OBUs are governed under subpart L of this part, except the maximum output power for portable DSRCS-OBUs is 1.0 mW. For purposes of this paragraph, a portable is a transmitting device designed to be used so that the radiating structure(s) of the device is/are within 20 centimeters of the body of the user.

