(a) Mutually exclusive initial applications for 218-219 MHz Service licenses are subject to competitive bidding. The general competitive bidding procedures set forth in part 1, subpart Q of this chapter will apply unless otherwise provided in this part.

(b) Installment payments. Eligible Licensees that elect resumption pursuant to Amendment of part 95 of the Commission's Rules to Provide Regulatory Flexibility in the 218-219 MHz Service, Report and Order and Memorandum Opinion and Order, FCC 99-239 (released September 10, 1999) may continue to participate in the installment payment program. Eligible Licensees are those that were current in installment payments (i.e. less than ninety days delinquent) as of March 16, 1998, or those that had properly filed grace period requests under the former installment payment rules. All unpaid interest from grant date through election date will be capitalized into the principal as of Election Day creating a new principal amount. Installment payments must be made on a quarterly basis. Installment payments will be calculated based on new principal amount as of Election Day and will fully amortize over the remaining term of the license. The interest rate will equal the rate for five-year U.S. Treasury obligations at the grant date.

(c) Eligibility for small business provisions. (1) A small business is an entity that, together with its affiliates and controlling interests, has average gross revenues not to exceed $15 million for the preceding three years.

(2) A very small business is an entity that, together with its affiliates and controlling interests, has average gross revenues not to exceed $3 million for the preceding three years.

(d) Bidding credits. A winning bidder that qualifies as a small business, as defined in this subsection, or a consortium of small businesses may use the bidding credit specified in ยง 1.2110(f)(2)(ii) of this chapter. A winning bidder that qualifies as a very small business, as defined in this section, or a consortium of very small businesses may use the bidding credit specified in accordance with ยง 1.2110(f)(2)(i) of this chapter.

(e) Winning bidders in Auction No. 2, which took place on July 28-29, 1994, that, at the time of auction, met the qualifications under the Commission's rules then in effect, for small business status will receive a twenty-five percent bidding credit pursuant to Amendment of part 95 of the Commission's Rules to Provide Regulatory Flexibility in the 218-219 MHz Service, Report and Order and Memorandum Opinion and Order, FCC 99-239 (released September 10, 1999).

